--- Page 2 ---
ul -Nationaly '
Center

(see page 7)

S ISSUE:

Tinderbox in Lower Saxony pase.¢

SEPTEMBER
Freedom of Opportunity page 9

1952

Diecc) AUT Were NOOR, (CME EAE WY een UE i he

--- Page 3 ---
| (above left) Mr. Swope delivers the principal address at the dedication ceremony. (above right)
(left to right) Mr. Elbot, Capt. Armand Klein of France and Ian Sconce of the United Kingdor
searching
origin
clerks, and were found practically intact.

Visitors are shown through the partially completed building.

epresentatives of eight nations participated in the

dedication Aug. 20 of the new administration build-
ing for the International Tracing Service (ITS) at Arol-
sen in northern Hesse. Taking part in the program were
Guy Swope, chief of HICOG’s Displaced Populations
Division; Dr. Hans Lukaschek, German federal minister
for refugee affairs; D. Malcolm, of the External Affairs
Branch, Office of the UK High Commissioner; Dr. Jacques
Meillon, chief of the Displaced Population and Refugee

for the fate of Nazi victims among the voluminous records now in ITS possession.
al Buchenwald concentration camp records with new English labels. The records had been carefully kept

New Home

for the

International
Tracing
Service

at Arolsen

For complete description of opera-
tions of International Tracing Ser-
vice, see article “Manhunt for
6,000,000" by Hugh G. Elbot in the
Information Bulletin, May 1951.

Branch, Ottice of the French High Commissioner; Hugh
G. Elbot, chairman of the ITS Executive Board; repre-
sentatives of the Benelux countries, of Italy, and of
Israel, and local officials of Arolsen.

The building houses the millions of original concentra-
tion camp files and other records through which thou-
sands of individuals, living and dead have been traced
since 1945. The structure was built at a cost of DM 756,000
(equivalent to $179,928).

(PLB-ID-HICOG photo by

Members of ITS Executive Boal
m. (below left) Workers are shoil
(below right) Part of files are
by the SS and

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff
Editor ... .H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor.....Frank H. Jonas
Feature Editor... Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8728, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, by offset process, by
the Printing and Reproduction Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located at 2 Rheingau
Allee, Frankfurt.

Distribution is handled by the Dis-
tribution Unit, Communications Serv-
ices Division, Office of Executive Di-
rector, HICOG. This unit is located
in US Headquarters Building, Room
949, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

Correspondence concerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Public Affairs
Field Center or the American Con-
sulate General.

_ Correspondence concerning inquir-
les and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

_Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

Cover Photograph — Under the flags of the four
participating nations — the United States, German
Federal Republic, the United Kingdom and France,
stand three of the officials of the Multi-National
Center in Nuremberg. They are (left to right) Wil-
liam E. Roach, British cultural officer assigned to
the center; Dr. Martin Ackermann, US cultural of-
ficer, and his German consultant. Other officials
were not present when this photograph was made.
For a story of the center, see article “House of
International Citizenship,” beginning on page 7.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
September 1952
International Tracing Service
Pictorial Feature

New Swimming Pool at Helmstedt .
Pictorial Story

Salzgitter, a Tinderbox in Lower Saxony
Article by John G. Kormann

Soldier Trio Share Valuable Instruments. . .

House of International Citizenship
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney

Freedom of Opportunity
Resume of Panel Discussion

The Professions, The Universities ... and the Future .
Article by Dr. J. J. Oppenheimer

Understanding through Generous Help .
Translation from Waiblingen Kreiszeitung

Humor from Soviet Zone ..............
Collection of Jokes from East

In and Around Germany ..............

Outside Germany .......

Personnel Notes... ..............

German Editorials

Official Communiques .

Recent Publications .................

Reenactment of Linse Kidnaping
Pictorial Feature

inside front cover

16

18

inside back cover

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY

APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
New Swimming Pool
Rebuffs East Taunts

The border city of Helmstedt struck back at its Com-
munist antagonists in the Soviet Zone recently. The city
fathers, tired of Communist youth demonstrations and
bleatings across the frontier about all they are doing
decided upon a rash solution. They would show what
a free Germany could do!

A plan to build a magnificent swimming pool within
a stone’s throw of the border was conceived. This was
fine—but from where was the money to come? It would
cost more than half a million marks. As propaganda
flowed across the frontier with the constant serenade
of “how wonderful it is to be a youngster in the com-
munist fatherland”—all thoughts of financial problems
were dispelled. The swimming pool must be built!

Individual citizens contributed; the city and county
contributed; large Brunswick coal mining company con-
tributed a vast sum, clubs and organizations contributed,
and the Federal Government contributed. A swamp was
cleared and bit by bit one of the most modern swimmini
pools in Europe was built, which attracts 3,000 - 5,
bathers daily. In actuality, there are three pools: one
in a Hollywood leaf design style; another in rectangul: M
olympic-style racing form; and a large rounded gra
uated children’s bath. j

Helmstedt is proud of its accomplishment and @
though the finance office is still worried about securil
the remainder of the funds, this wonderful reer
tional facility stands today as a tribute to a com
munity who believes in freedom for their youth
matter what the cost. i

SEPTEMBER 1%

--- Page 6 ---
Salzgitter

A Tinderbox in Lower Saxony
by John G. Kormann

Information Officer, Public Affairs Field Center, Hanover

NTO THE hardship area of Salzgitter in eastern

Lower Saxony has moved US Public Affairs with its
informational and cultural program to help alleviate
the widespread apathy and misery resulting from
wartime boom, postwar chaos, influx of refugees and
constant threat of being engulfed in a new totalitar-
ianism, either Communism or neo-Nazism.

From the regional Public Affairs Field Center in
nearby Hanover has come the advice, assistance and
encouragement to make the people more intelligent,
more respectful of their individual responsibilities and
relationship to their fellowman and better qualified to
help their country to win its place among the free
nations of the world.

Conferences and activities have been sponsored espe-
cially for the youth and the women. Money has been
contributed to the building of a vocation school and the
initiating of social projects. The bookmobile of the
America House. in Hanover tours the area. Films and
printed material of a democratic, as well as anti-
Communist, nature have been widely distributed. Per-
sons have been carefully selected to visit the United
States under the Exchanges Program.

ALZGITTER, an area of more than 75 square miles

south of Brunswick and a short distance from the
border of the Soviet Zone, is as strange a hodge-podge
as ever to be governed as a communal administration. It
is an agglomeration of modern: city blocks, mammoth
factory buildings, interspersed farms and rural villages.
Its 120,000 inhabitants include only some 20,000 natives.
the rest being those remaining from the wartime labor
force and thousands expelled or seeking refuge from the
East.

Showing of US Public Affairs films is one cultural activ-
(photo by Fischer)

ity available in Salzgitter.

Its wartime boom sprung from its mineral deposits,
for below the surface are an estimated 2,000,000,000 tons
of workable iron ore. German industrialists in the late
thirties built there one of the world’s most modern steel
mills, known then as the Hermann Goering Steel Works.
Utilizing the latest methods to dress rather poor quality
ore, millions of tons of first-class pig iron were produced
to feed into the German war machine.

The Mittelland Canal, which runs through the district,
eliminated otherwise higher land transportation costs
and made the mills more advantageous than the Ruhr
in filling orders from northern and eastern Germany.
Despite the tremendous exploitation to satiate a driv-
ing war machine, the bountiful deposits have barely
been touched.

HE POPULATION is so heterogeneous as to present

a very delicate problem. The native inhabitants
numbered about 20,000 in separate villages and hamlets.
When the steel works were built, 40,000 workers were
conscripted or came voluntarily from other parts of the
country. During the war years, thousands of foreign
slave laborers and prisoners of war doubled this figure
and many remained to be absorbed into the community.
Then after the war came first thousands of ethnic Ger-
mans expelled from the eastern countries and later,
because of its proximity to the Soviet Zone border, the
refugees fleeing from the intolerable life under Com-
munism in eastern Germany. Curiously enough, one does
not find the discrimination between natives and refugees
which is so prevalent in other parts of Germany.

The many idle mills, closed as the result of war de-
struction and postwar controls, have been disastrous
for these people. Large-scale unemployment, stagnation
and poverty are typical of the area. Housing is pitifully
inadequate and sanitary facilities are lacking. Many
residents barely exist in crude pasteboard shacks and
Niessen huts. One of the few adequate apartment build-
ings has been taken over by the local German author-
ities for use as a town hall. There are no hospitals or
office buildings, the school facilities are sorely insuffi-
cient and the 250 miles of streets and roads are badly
in need of repair. The destruction of the war also has
left its mark. This setting has produced lawlessness and
violence.

ROXIMITY to the Soviet Zone has contributed to the
demoralization, which has been discouraging not
only to the residents but also to business interests in
their plans to utilize Salzgitter’s resources. Communist

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
elements press their attempts to infiltrate the area and
create unrest, citing Salzgitter as an example of Marxist
contention that capitalism seeks to oppress the working
classes. Recently left-wing efforts have been brought
under control by local enforcement officers and the
Federal border police.

A new danger now appears to come from the extreme
right and neo-Nazi groups who have scored initial suc-
cesses in the area. The formerly strong Social Democrat-
ic segments, which rose in 1946 out of the laboring
elements, are voicing fears that they are being encircled
by right-wing coalitions. Neo-Nazi political machina-
tions, which have made some headway in other parts of
Lower Saxony, have had reverberations in Salzgitter,
increasing political instability.

Early this year, as a result of tripartite agreement, an
American Public Affairs Field Center was opened in
Hanover to serve the eastern part of the state of Lower
Saxony. Using the projects begun by the former office
of the HICOG’s state observer for Lower Saxony and
the Hanover America House as the base, a coordinated
effort was initiated to implement an informational and
cultural program to foster the development of dem-
ocratic concepts in the Salzgitter area.

HE YOUNG people of Salzgitter, many of whom had

become apathetic toward their seemingly hopeless
future, were viewed with much concern. To assist them
in finding their rightful place in society they are en-
couraged to engage in numerous activities, such as
youth meetings and work camps. In August, for exam-
ple, under the auspices of the Youth Council, the Public
Affairs Center held a series of six conferences on
“Citizenship: Its Privileges and Its Responsibilities.”
Special emphasis was laid upon the selecting of young
people prominent in church work, labor unions and other
local organizations to attend these sessions, so that they
would be able to apply the results of the conference
upon returning to their hapless community.

Attention was also focused on the problem of inad-
equate educational facilities. The municipal government,

Steel factory, once booming to supply German war machine,
destitute, live in shacks and eke out bare existence in shadow of mills.

though laboring under a deficit of DM 4,500,000 (equiv~
alent to $1,071,000) managed to build several new
schools. As the need to train youth for productive posi-
tions still existed, DM 275,000 ($65,450) was contributed
by the HICOG Special Projects Fund toward the build-
ing of a large trade school. Hundreds of young men and
women are now preparing themselves to become elec-
tricians, metalworkers, tailors, or specialists in other
skills. This spacious structure has many rooms, including
laboratories, library, auditorium and student cafeteria.
The equipment, ranging from dynamos to microscopes,
has already earned for this establishment a reputation
as the best equipped institution in the region.

The women, comprising two-thirds of Salzgitter’s
unemployed, are another segment of the population
meriting consideration. Special courses are held to dispel
their feelings of frustration and despair, and to direct
their energies into constructive paths. In conjunction
with the eight local women’s organizations, classes
designed to create interest in public life are conducted,
Seven courses have been initiated to date. Steps are also
being taken to integrate the individual women’s groups
into one major council, which will assist in carrying out
civic measures.

Y MEANS of more general projects, the entire com-

munity is being reached. Cooperation with a number
of German groups, such as Work and Life, administered
by the German labor unions, Public Affairs has ren-
dered assistance to the adult education schools in the
form of lectures and donations of necessary materials.
Moreover, an intensified film program, sponsored by a
public-spirited committee, is supplied by the Public
Affairs Film Office with projectors and selection of
documentaries from a library of over 2,000 films. Con-
tinuous showings on a wide variety of subjects are
given in the 29 individual localities in the Salzgitter
area. The attendance at a single performance has been
as high as 1,100 persons.

Typical of the citizenry’s enthusiastic response was
the reception to a showing on June 9. Fifteen minutes

stands silent and idle. Former workers, many
(photos by Public Affairs Center, Hanover)

|

--- Page 8 ---
With the assistance of a grant of DM 275,000 ($65,450) from the HICOG Special Projects Fund, this modern

building was erected as a new vocational school to teach the youth of Salzgitter better means of making a living.

before the scheduled time, the hall was filled to capac-
ity with more than 850 spectators. Outside, an impatient,
milling throng of 200 waited to enter. When it was
announced that it was physically impossible to accom-
modate even one more person cries of disappointment
rang out. In the confusion which followed the crowd
forced its way into the theater, literally breaking down
the door. When the police was summoned, tempers were
soothed and reparations made. Afterwards, many apol-
ogies were received from inhabitants, who were ex-
tremely embarrased by the unfortunate incident.

ASIC TO the information campaign is the circulation

of reading material. An America House library
service has been arranged, to loan large quantities of
books and magazines to educational institutions and
other groups in Salzgitter. A new bookmobile, which
carries 4,000 books, has extended the program into sec-
tors as yet untouched by other activities. As this giant
library-on-wheels travels throughout the factory dis-
tricts and hamlets of this strange township, it is greeted
by clusters of eager children and adults.

In addition, the three Salzgitter newspapers are
utilized to keep the citizens informed. The Public Affairs
Information Office supplies them with feature articles
on a variety of subjects. With the cooperation of the
editorial staffs, a special effort has also been made to
carry out an information program by supplying tens of
thousands of pamphlets and booklets to combat Com-
munist and neo-Nazi propaganda.

To guarantee the viability of worthwhile cultural
institutions fostering the principles of democracy, the
Office of the US High Commissioner has allocated funds
for a series of projects totaling DM 10,000 ($2,380). One
project was a conference on the theory and practice of
self-government, held in conjunction with the adult
education schools and attended by representatives of
many different interests. Another part of the cultural
Program includes scheduled concerts and lectures given
by visiting guest artists under the sponsorship of the
Public Affairs Office and the Hanover America House.

SEPTEMBER 1952

These evenings have met with overwhelming approval.
Letters of appreciation such as the following have been
received: “You have shown us that you really share our
troubles and sorrows. We feel that you have come to
give us a human contact, which sometimes means even
more than material help.”

ECENTLY, a group of Germans from the Salzgitter

area was selected to be sent to the United States
under the State Department Exchanges Program. Three
are teen-age students, who will live with American
families for one year. The others comprise a team con-
sisting of the mayor, a newspaper editor, youth leader,
businessman, teacher, city councilman, political party
leader, social worker, church delegate and labor union
official. Traveling in the United States for three months,
this team will observe the operation of citizens’ groups
in American cities. It is hoped that this experience will
enable them to aid in Salzgitter’s regeneration, by stim-
ulating their fellow townsmen to solve their civic
problems through democratic community action.

Much has been accomplished in this step-child of the
state of Lower Saxony, but the Hanover Public Affairs
Field Center is aware of the magnitude of the even
greater task that lies ahead. In the final analysis, the
prosperity of the area is dependent upon the reopening
of the steel mills and the return to normal operations.
Three of the former twelve plants are already func-
tioning under government control and produce yearly
250,000 tons of quality pig iron, which is DM 20 ($4.76)
cheaper per ton than that of the Ruhr.

Salzgitter officials appear optimistic about the recon-
struction of the badly needed equipment as a natural
consequence of the vigorous recovery of western Ger-
many and its new significance for European integration.
Steps are being taken to secure assistance for agriculture
and to utilize new techniques and mechanization in cul-
tivating the surrounding fertile soil. These are hopes
within realization in the not too distant future. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Soldier Trio Share

Valuable Instruments

N OUTSTANDING example of German-American

relations is being exhibited these days in Stuttgart
where a trio of musically-gifted American soldiers are
playing on stringed instruments valued at more than
$40,000.

The instruments belong to Fridolin Emil Hamma,
prominent dealer-collector in Stuttgart, whose collection
of instruments are valued at more than $710,000. Among
them are a “Fetzer” Stradivarius violin ($16,660), made
in 1694; a “Smazuelah” Strandivarius viola ($11,900);
a “Soloman” viola, made in Paris 1790; and an Italian
Montagnana cello ($11,900).

The three soldiers — PFC Harold Levine of New York
City, Cpl. Richard C. Blum of Chicago and Cpl. Ray-
mond A. Brandes of Indianapolis, Ind., — have toured
Germany, giving concerts in the America Houses and
before both German and American audiences, and ap-
pearing on broadcasts of classical music over the Amer-
ican Forces Network the US Armed Forces radio system
in Europe. They also are members of the Seventh Army
Symphony Orchestra, which is gaining fame in Germany
although it was organized only last spring.

FC LEVINE started playing the viola at the age

of five and studied at the New York High School of
Music and Art and at the David Mannes School of Music
in New York. He was first violinist with the Dallas
Symphony Orchestra in 1947 and was with the Minne-
apolis Symphony Orchestra when he was called into
service in October 1950. He is an artilleryman with the
28th Infantry Division, currently on temporary duty
with Special Services at Seventh Army Headquarters.

Corporal Blum started his musical career at the age
of eight, playing the piano. He switched to violin at ten
and then settled down to the viola when the family
quartet needed a violist. He studied at Lane Technical
High School in Chicago and was graduated from East-

Levine holds 1694 Fetzer Stradivarius firmly as he and
fellow musicians look over repair job in Hamma shop.

Practicing on the valuable instruments with Mr. Hamma
(white coat) are (left to right) PFC Levine, Corporal
Blum and Corporal Brandes. (Seventh Army PIO photos)

man School of Music in Rochester, N.Y. He played with
the Rochester Philharmonic and was first violinist with
the San Antonio Symphony Orchester when called into
service in February 1951. He also is an artilleryman with
the 28th Division, on temporary duty with Special Ser-
vices.

Corporal Brandes started with playing the piano and
shifted to the cello when he was 12. He was graduated
from the Jordan School of Music jn Indianapolis and
from Indiana University’s School of Music in 1948.
Drafted in 1950, he is assigned to the Chaplain’s Section
at VII Corps Headquarters, now on loan to Special Ser-
vices.

FC LEVINE, who met Mr. Hamma through a

mutual friend, is described by the dealer-collector as
one of the most promising young violinists to appear on
concert stages in recent years.

On their tours in Germany, the three are accompanied
by Cpl. Amo Capelli of Chicago. Corporal Capelli has
appeared as soloist in addition to his work with the
chamber-music group. One of the most noted occasions
was in March when he played Grieg’s Concerto in A-
minor with the Wiesbaden Symphony in Wiesbaden.

For their performances at Hamma’s house and in
Stuttgart, PFC Levine plays the “Fetzer” but on tour
he uses his own Nicoli Amati. Corporal Blum likewise
plays the “Samazuelah” in Stuttgart and tours with the
“Soloman” viola. On tour, Corporal Brandes uses a 100-
year-old Vienna Master cello, lent him by Hamma.

The chamber-music group has given concerts before
America House audiences, generally comprising mostly
German music lovers, in Nuremberg, Coburg, Bamberg,
Bayreuth, Regensburg and Stuttgart. Contrary to pop-
ular conception, their serious music has been received —
enthusiastically by soldier audiences. +END ‘

SEPTEMBER 1952 a

--- Page 10 ---
House of International Citizenship

by Haynes R. Mahoney

Information Officer, Public Affairs Field Center, Nuremberg

MODEST library, established in 1948 to help Franc-

onian educators write new textbooks, has now
developed into one of the most unusual centers of inter-
national cooperation in the world. The flags of the Unit-
ed States, Great Britain, France and Germany, flying
over the entrance of Nuremberg’s Multi-National Center,
symbolize the presence there of four nations working
independently and cooperatively to develop international
citizens in this border region of West Germany. While
each nation conducts its own lectures, film showings and
seminars to acquaint German groups with its respective
native culture, together they are now organizing inter-
national programs reaching through the spectrum of
north Bavarian civic and cultural organizations — from
parent-teacher associations to labor union groups.

As present plans come to fruition, the quadripartite
cultural representatives are organizing a conference of
women leaders from all parts of western Europe for the
fall to concentrate feminine thought and planning on the
promotion of European unity. Another project provides
for a seminar of German trade union and industry re-
presentatives to work out with foreign experts methods
of providing higher education for gifted workers. Also
planned is a conference of representatives of the inter-
national documentary film exchange organizations in
other nations with German civic leaders to organize a
similar film exchange in Nuremberg through which the
documentary film of many nations could be made avail-
able to Germany.

A PROGRAM is under discussion to hold regular meet-

ings of German vocational guidance counselors with
foreign experts to cull the best ideas from their com-
bined experience for putting the right youth in the right
job. These and other multinational programs will be
enriched by the use of appropriate books, films and
exhibits from the four nations.

Whatever the course and its participants, it is sure to
accomplish two important objectives: it will contribute
to developing the kind of responsible citizenship needed
for West Germany’s new role in the community of na-
tions, and it will demonstrate to even the most skeptical
observer the growing cultural unity of the West. Euro-
pean delegates attending the Nuremberg multinational
workshops should bring back to their own countries a
feeling of hope and confidence in a new Germany.

While most of next year’s specific international pro-
grams are still in blueprint stage, the facilities — and

the cooperative spirit — are already present in abun-
dance.

SEPTEMBER 1952

Thus far the Americans have made the largest cultural
contribution to the center. The Nuremberg Public Affairs
Field Center maintains a library of 16,000 books on soci-
ological and educational subjects. Dr. Martin Ackermann,
US cultural officer, heads this center of American civ-
ilization and conducts a vigorous program of research,
lectures and support to German organizations on many
subjects from child guidance to worker’s education.

HE Centre d’Etudes Francaises (Center of French

Studies), headed by Rene Zimmermann, French For-
eign Office cultural representative, includes a library of
5,000 French volumes, which mirrors French life to the
visiting German intellectuals. Courses on French lan-
guage and culture, frequent lectures by visiting French
experts and Mr. Zimmermann’'s untiring liaison-work
offers French culture and know-how to pedagogues,
youth leaders, labor educators and others in northern
Bavaria.

William E. Roach, British cultural officer, who arrived
last February, is currently building up his library of
5,000 books, while ranging around Bavaria in his contacts
with active civic and educational organizations. In addi-
tion to acquainting Germans with the culture of the
British Commonwealth, Mr. Roach is also able to arrange
for various exchange trips of Germans to British schools
and eminent Britons to Germany, such as a drama critic
for the Erlangen University international theater week
and an outstanding organist for Nuremberg’s organ
festival.

Official German cooperation in the Multi-National
Center will also be provided. It is expected that Dr.
Albert Riemann, a leader of the Bavarian Teachers’

In the Centre d'Etudes Francaises, William E. Roach,
(standing right), British cultural officer, inspects with
Dr. Martin Ackermann, US cultural officer, one of the
5,000 French books on the center’s expanding shelves.

= ey i)

arses,

tite,

aha

--- Page 11 ---
Student packs his bag after attending a conference at
the center. Facilities like this one are available for 70
persons. (photos by Public Affairs Field Center, Nuremberg)

Association, will be named as the German member of
the four-power team. A German wing, with its own
library and other information facilities, will be set up
in the Center, thus collecting under one roof a good
representation of the cultural heritage of both sides of
the Atlantic.

Unofficially many German organizations have been
active participants in the Multi-National Center for
several years. The Bavarian Teachers Organization al-
ready maintains an office in the building; the Franc-
onian Womens’ Working Committee has established its
headquarters there, the Nuremberg Parent-Teacher As-
sociation, the German-American Youth Club and the
County Youth Association also have offices in the build-
ing. The Bund Europaeischer Jugend (Federation of Euro-
pean Youth) hold bimonthly meetings there.

These organizations, which are linked to many related
and subsidiary groups throughout Franconia, conduct
active educational programs of their own, using the
Center’s facilities and drawing on the information mate-
rials as well as the visiting foreign specialists for assist-
ance.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HESE groups are always eager to cooperate with any

international program which the Center organizes in
their field. Thus the unusual institution serves as an
international hub of educational activities in northern
Bavaria, extending out to the village school teacher who
comes in for a week-end course, or factory work coun-
selors, who arrive for discussion of labor education.

And when the four nations present a program together,
participants quickly realize that the Americans are not
“all cultural barbarians”, the French are not such Ger-
manophobes as was at first thought, the British have a
definite interest in the progress of European unity, and
the Germans themselves have a considerable potential for
responsible citizenship and international cooperation.

This Nuremberg experiment in international relations
grew out of HICOG’s Education Service Center which in
1947 was transferred from two rooms in the America
House to the present building, formerly belonging to the
Palace of Justice, and once used as a billet for witnesses
in the War Crimes trials. This grim background was
quickly dispelled by the Education Service Center which
provided a library, films, records and other facilities to
aid idealistic German groups to work out their many
educational problems in an atmospere of freedom.

HE BUILDING includes three large conference rooms

and a 70-person dormitory, which were put to use for
conferences and seminars for teachers and civic leaders
from throughout Franconia. As the various German
groups established their programs in the building, and
the Service Center’s programs spread to cover many
civic fields, the institution became a well-known center
for the research and promotion of democratic action on
community problems — a unique institution after the
totalitarian blight of Nazism.

Of course, behind much of this activity was the think-
ing and guidance as well as the efforts of the numerous
visiting American educators, sociologists, labor relations
experts and others.

In 1951, the Education Service Center presented 30
training sessions and lectures on the use of tests and
classroom guidance — a neglected pedagogical skill in
Germany where prewar emphasis was on regimentation
rather than individual instruction. Teachers and educa=
tors participated in 24 demonstrations and training pro-
grams organized by the Center on civic education — the
art of training good citizens as well as good scholars in
elementary schools. Humanizing the vocational schools.
with history, civics, literature and other subjects which
make teen-aged students responsible individuals as well
as good electricians, clerks and carpenters was another
field of research and teacher-training in the Center.

There were conferences for editors of school papers,

parent-teacher discussions, many sessions of youth groups
and womens’ organizations on their problems, training
programs for trade unionists in labor relations, meetings

Continued on page 10

SEPTEMBER 1

--- Page 12 ---
Freedom of Opportunity

Resume of Panel Discussion in Stuttgart

i nee PRIVILEGE of an individual to engage in any
trade, business or profession is one of the most argued
subjects in Germany today. To the American, who calls
it “freedom of opportunity”, it is an established custom.
To the German, who calls it “Gewerbefeiheit”, it
is quite foreign to the practice coming down from the
guild licensing system of the Middle Ages and revived
during the Third Reich.*

This controversial issue was the theme of a joint Ger-
man-American public panel discussion sponsored in
Stuttgart earlier this year by the Office of the US State
Commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden. While the dis-
cussion remained free, it did not pass without incident.
About 20 master craftsmen, who had become excessively
and increasingly noisy, stormed out during one of the
principal addresses when they were invited by the mod-
erator, Cecil Headrick of the American Consulate Gen-
eral in Stuttgart, either to desist or depart.

Opened by Harvey M. Coverley, then US deputy com-
missioner, the public discussion took place in the audito-
rium of the Technische Werke building in Stuttgart. He
was followed by two experts on the subject, Karl
Metzger, legal consultant for the Wuerttemberg-Baden
Handicraft Chamber, and Prof. Franz Boehm, lecturer
in law at the University of Frankfurt.

( Retire tence et defined by Mr. Coverley as the
right to engage in work or a business of one’s choice,
was reintroduced in the US zone in June 1948 by a
directive which abolished the previous licensing system.
Under this system, an applicant, in order to start a new
shop, had to obtain a license which was granted only
when he could pass an examination before a board con-
sisting of his future competitors, prove an economic need
for the new shop, and obtain the approval of several
licensing authorities, chambers, and governmental as
well as quasi-governmental agencies.

Since the reintroduction of Gewerbefreiheit there
has been constantly terrific pressure from the previously
entrenched German businessmen, who, as members of
the guilds and ‘manual trade chambers, formerly con-
trolled the licensing apparatus, to modify or get rid of
Gewerbefreiheit through legislation.

Making his position very clear, Mr. Coverley catego-
tically expressed his “deep, strong and thoroughly par-
tisan” interest in freedom and his intention “to uphold
and promote it”. While he admitted that the right of

*For description of this subject, see article “Gewerbefreiheit”
by Vaughn Smartt in the Information Bulletin, April 1951.

SEPTEMBER 1952

those with sufficient capital to establish new businesses
in agriculture, large scale manufacturing and retailing,
newspaper and magazine publishing is not often serious-
ly threatened, he raised the question whether a com-
parable freedom is maintained and guaranteed for the
“little man”, the not-yet-independent handicraftsman or
small retailer.

FTER POINTING out that Gewerbefreiheit is

not exclusively an American idea but a principle
which was practiced in Germany during the golden age
of Germany’s economic development and expansion from
1870 to 1910, he proceeded to the core of the problem and
answered the opposing arguments. The hand workers
claim that freedom of trade permits fly-by-nighters and
chiselers to start up businesses easily, lower prices, and
produce inferior work, endangering public health, wel-
fare and safety, because they do not work in the general
interest.

Mr. Coverley maintained that the best discipline for
such practices was provided by the public or the con-
sumer and that increased competition meant increased
froduction and consumption. He pointed out that protec-
tion should control individual initiative only to protect
the public and not defend persons or corporations against
competitors. He stated that “the stability of the eco-
nomy is not based on the control of the number of busi-
ness enterprises but upon society’s ability to purchase
and consume the goods.” He concluded by asserting that
freedom of trade is the logical consequence of accepting
freedom itself.

Taking the position of the manual tradesmen, Mr.
Metzger said his organization favored free enterprise
but a regulated free enterprise, so that handwork would

Panel at the discussion was composed of (left to right)
Mr. Metzger, Mr. Coverley, Dr. Boehm and Cecil Headrick,
(AMCONGEN photos by Schwarz)

moderator.

--- Page 13 ---
:

An official of the Association of Food Retailers in Ess-
lingen stresses point from floor at end of discussion.

not fall into the hands of persons who are mere busi-
nessmen and not expert themselves in their work. He
claimed that under a system requiring a certificate of
qualification anyone could open a new business if he
fills the qualifications. He had stated earlier that the
American idea of free enterprise is a Trojan horse in
Germany, designed to undermine German expertness and
efficiency in order to benefit competition outside of
Germany.

RROFESSOR Boehm, supporting the Gewerbefreiheit

position, came out for free enterprise without
limitation. An authority in this field, he reinforced Mr.
Coverley’s stand that historically handwork had impro-
ved its position when there was no certificate of qual-
ification and would loose its gains if it were to be rein-
troduced. When Professor Boehm stated that the manual
craftsmen were only concerned about losing their individ-
ual orders in competition, impugning their altruism,
roars ensued leading to the dissenting group’s walking
out of the meeting. Professor Boehm, however, continued
speaking, asserting that freedom is indivisible, and that,
if one citizen in the nation is hindered from producing
something the customers will be satisfied with, then that
nation is not free.

While the meeting may not have succeeded in con-
verting any German master craftsman to Gewerbefrei-
heit, it was a democratically conducted discussion in
which the idea of freedom and its application to busi-
ness enterprise was again elaborated, evaluated and con-
firmed by American and German representatives. +END

ECA Counterpart Assistance

The United States released a total of DM 3,075,045,000
of Economic Cooperation Administration counterpart
funds to 53 sectors of industry and agriculture in the
Federal Republic of Germany and western Berlin from
the beginning of the ECA program through Nov. 30, 1951,

INFORMATION BULLETIN 10

according to a summary report of the Mutual Security
Agency Special Mission to Germany.

This sum was made available under investment pro-
grams as credits and grants-in-aid to more than 60,000
firms, institutions and individuals for use in a wide
variety of projects ranging from the purchase of tools
for expellees to the construction of large industrial
plants, from the promotion of livestock production to the
building of workers’ housing in war-torn cities, the re-
port said.

The counterpart funds were Deutsche marks provided
by the Federal Government as its part of the mutual
program under which the United States expended
4$1,317,991,099.58 in direct aid to the Federal Republic
and western Berlin. This total of dollar expenditures
generated a total of DM 4,966,788,000 in counterpart
funds. ’

Marshall Plan dollar aid has come to the Federal
Republic in the form of goods such as machinery, cotton,
wheat and raw materials. These goods are credited to
the Federal Government and are purchased by German
firms for their consumption and remanufacture into
finished goods. The German firms pay the Federal Go-
vernment for these goods in Deutsche marks, which then
are deposited in an ERP Special Account of the govern-
ment and are called “counterpart funds”.

House of International Citizenship

Continued from page 8

for the promotion of tolerance by the Nuremberg Coun-
cil of Christians and Jews, regular lecture series by the
Nuremberg Adult Education school, and even conferences
of Esperanto teachers — all of which were either spon-
sored by, or in one way or another used the books, films,
recordings and other materials of the Center.

HE ESTABLISHMENT of the Centre d’Etudes Fran-

caises in 1950, followed by the British Cultural Rela-
tions Office in January, 1952, was a natural development
in the expanding activities of the Nuremberg education
center. With the opening of an independent self-suffi-
cient German wing, officially representing German cultural
life, the evolution will be complete and will parallel
Germany’s national development of the past year —
from an occupied nation to a full-fledged partner in the ~
Western society of nations.

This quadripartite cultural team will have the conm=
tinuing opportunity to stimulate a spirit of internation-—
alism in hundreds of organizations in northern Bavaria,
and thereby demonstrate to the teachers, the civic lea~
ders, the trade unionists, the youth — in short to t
average citizen — that not only the German Feder
government, but the German people are once mo!
safely and honorably associated in the world of Weste!
civilization. oh

SEPTEMBER 195

--- Page 14 ---
The Professions,

the Universities
..... and the Future

Review

by Dr. J. J. Oppenheimer

N ELDERLY German professor in summing up the
high points of a conference on universities and the
professions said:

It is wonderful to think that nations, which seven
years ago were still at war with each other, have
come together here to discuss their common pro-
blems. If in 1945 somebody had asked me how long
I thought it would be until that could happen, I
would have answered: “One generation”. That it can
happen today is a victory of the mind and of the
spirit. The academic attitude of mind has not been
engulfed by a machine-conditioned age, but it is a
living thing.

He expressed the thoughts in the minds of sixty re-
presentatives of four nations — France, Germany, the
United Kingdom and the United States — assembled at
a four-day conference in Koenigswinter near Bonn in
March. The conference had been planned jointly by the
higher education specialists of the Allied nations and a
German university committee headed by Rector Werner
Richter of Bonn University. The German committee pre-
pared the program and invited participants, half of
whom represented the professions and the other half the
rectors and professors of professional schools in German
institutions of higher education. The Allied countries
furnished consultants who worked with the four profes-
sional groups: engineering, law, medicine and teaching.

Dr. Hans Neuffer (standing), president of the Permanent
Conference of German Physicians, leads discussion with
members of medical group. (HICOG photos by Gassner)

‘HE CONFERENCE presented an unusual opportunity

to compare the system and problems of professional
education and to a more limited degree to see how na-
tional values influence the education of their profes-
sional leaders.

The German representatives were somewhat pes-
simistic, although eager to hear of the advances made in
other countries, but confused as to what next steps were
to be taken. They gave the feeling that the Nazi regime,
war and restoration had taken a terrific toll and that
great energy and many resources have to be expended
to repair the damages. They reiterated the point that
most of the professions were over-supplied and that in
Germany there was real danger of creating a “white
collar proletariat”. The idea of academic freedom, name-
ly that a student should have the opportunity to enter
any profession of his choice has much to do with the
oversupply of professional people. Added to this is the
social prestige which is attached to the professions.

On the other hand, the French, most similar to their
German neighbors, were confident that their system was
taking care of French needs.

The British, in their careful and conservative way,
pointed to their sound progress in professional education,
were more experimental in their approach, were deeply
concerned to give the student individual instructions,
and were working intently to broaden the social class
basis of the professions.

T IS DIFFICULT for an American to understand the
pressure of competition for a place in the professions
that is due to the combinations of economic rewards and
social status that are to be attained in few other occupa-
tions. Professional education in the United States was
described as: the most un-European, heavily financed,
conducive for young men and women to become socially
mobile, possible for wider social-groups admission to the
professions, combination of the leadership of the best in

Dr. Oppenheimer wrote this article before he returned
to his professorship at the University of Louisville in
Kentucky. He had been consultant for higher education,
Division of Cultural Affairs, Office of Public Affairs.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
the profession and the educators in the professional
schools to work out better educational programs both in
the professional schools and after graduation through
refresher and post-graduate training; utilization of more
realistic practical training and theoretical study, and
most emphatical attempt to convey to the professional
student his social responsibility as a citizen in his com-
munity, state and nation.

Yet, one came away from the meeting recognizing that
all had many common froblems. The leaders of the pro-
fessions are asking for better general education, espe-
cially in civic responsibility for the professional man.
How to make professional education fit the every day
needs of the professional man without making it a “bag
of tricks”; how to make it theoretical abstract and really
scientific; how to build on principles without losing the
student’s interest; how to decrease lecturing and didactic
teaching and to increase student participation especially
in thinking and solving problems; how to develop pro-
fessional attitudes and ethical values in the professional
students were issues that all professional teachers face.

LL REPRESENTATIVES, conscious of the tremen-

dous increase of useful knowledge and the growing de-
mands for more effective services, pointed out the needs
for continuous education of the practitioner after he
leaves the professional school. Better methods of examin-
ing of prospective professional people are a serious need.
Evaluation of the effectiveness of professional training
need to be taken out of the value of opinion. More ob-
jective evidence is to be desired.

Prof. Eduard Brenner, state secretary of Bavaria and
representative of the German Federal Government, in
an opening-session address, pointed out that the total
enrollment of students in the 16 universities, six insti-

tutes of technology and the 20 academies of various
kinds in West Germany is approximately 110,000 which
is only 2.2 percent of the respective age group of the
total West German population. Of the West German stu-
dents 18.6 percent dre in technology, 15.6 percent in
medecine, 15 percent in the natural sciences, 12.9 percent
in law, 12.2 percent in business administration and
economics, 10 percent in the humanities and 7.8 percent
in theology. Of the students 24 percent come from ac-
ademic classes and of the students’ fathers 30.4 percent
are in the civil service. Working classes contribute as
little as three percent of the students.

Professor Brenner declared professional training is
unduly confined to the theoretical approach and is op-
erated chiefly through lectures which are an insufficient
means of preparing the student for his professional tasks.
The greatest shortcoming of German higher education,
however, does not lie in certain inadequacies of profes-
sional training but lies in the fact that higher education
does not meet the non-professional needs of the present
world. Professor Brenner made it clear that serious re-
forms have to be initiated soon in order to enable Ger-
man higher education to fulfill its duties in the light of
the acute problems.

P RANKING among these demands is the challenge

of political education of students which should both
furnish those facts, principles and values which are in-
dispensable for an unbiased understanding of the vital
issues of today and for the active participation in re-
sponsible citizenship. According to Professor Brenner
this challenge cannot be satisfactorily met by a mere
liberalization of higher education. Reduction of subject
matter changes in examination requirements, concentra-
tion on the essentials and integration of disciplines must

Participating in an informal discussion during the conference are (left to right): Mr. Josef Aengenendt of Bonn, Pro-
fessor Bernard, dean of St. Thomas Hospital School; Dr. Hans Neuffer; Dr. Wilhelm Effing of Vinzenz Hospital,
(HICOG photo by Gassner)

Cologne; Professor Heidegger of the Anatomical Institute, Basle, Switzerland.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

SEPTEMBER 199

'

--- Page 16 ---
be made. None of these measures constitutes the general
education which is nothing if it is not political education.

The true general education is not a temporary effort
to counteract the disintegration of disciplines in order
to restore the long-lost unity of knowledge. It means
political education which alone can provide able leaders
of the future Germany and which will safeguard the
maintenance and furtherance of democratic life in Ger-
many. If German higher education representatives re-
cognize what the time spells they will go to work right
away.

Prof. Theodor Litt, professor of religion and education
at Bonn University, who had set up the agenda for the
meeting, requested the groups to concentrate on four
questions: (1) What are the principles of selection and of
admission, including problems of supply and demand?
(2) Is professional training adequate and does it meet the
demands required by the professions? (3) Ought the spe-
cialized professional education be complemented by a
general education and can the university do the job?
(4) Is there such a thing as professional ethics and, if not,
should attempts be made to develop such values?

The main work of the conference was done in the
four-group meetings, the highlight of each being here-
with summarized.

Engineering

REATER SIMILARITIES of problems were recog-

nized in this group although the national group used
different methods of dealing with them. In general the
engineers felt that their professional schools were not
getting the most all-around students.

How to attract abler and more personable students
was a serious concern of the group. In the United States
the engineering students as a group have ranked highest
in the psychological tests. The British felt the need of
recruiting abler students. Not many students are coming
from the laboring classes, although some American ev-
idence indicates some students are coming from the
ranks of skilled workers.

The German, French and British exhibited some fear
that recruiting promising youths from the laboring clas-
ses might deprive those classes of able leadership. They,
therefore, are working to see that such youths return to
their own social class. More engineers are needed in
Britain and the United States.

France and the United Kingdom are subsidizing
most of the students of engineering by scholarships. If
the youths of the lower classes can secure the proper
secondary education in these two countries, they have
ampler opportunities to enter professional schools than
do the students of like economic status in Germany and
the United States.

HE OPINION of all four national representatives
was that the professional training of engineering stu-
dents while it could be improved was basically sound.
Engineering education was becoming better organized

SEPTEMBER 1952

At a reception given at the home of the French high
commissioner, Mr. Capelle (left), director of Nancy Uni-
versity in France, converses with Andre Francois-Poncet.

and based on broad scientific principles. It was losing
much of its “trade school” character. All participants in-
dicated a need in industry of about-tour from technically
trained workers to every professional engineer. They did
not indicate that such training was a responsibility of
the engineering faculty.

That engineers needed broader general education was
agreed to, but the methods varied. In the United States
a fifth year to give room to a cumulative year of study
of devoted to socio-humanistic studies is being widely
adopted. The British rely on the tutorials and students
clubs. The French on a year’s philosophic course during
professional study.

Some German technical colleges notably the one in
Berlin, have general-education programs. But the bulk
of German opinion favored general education being
derived from the professional course. The Germans, too,
favor return to classical curriculum as a prerequisite to
admission to engineering.

All members of the group favored the inclusion of the
study of human relations. Broad civic education was also
seen as a need. Most members felt that professional
ethics could not be taught in formal courses, but must
arise from the characters of those entering this field and
from examples of those teaching students.

Law and Civil Service

N GREAT BRITAIN law students are usually recruited
from families of lawyers or judges. In France and
Germany students come from the upper middle classes.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
In the United States the social and economic basis is
much broader. At least two years of general education
is prerequisite for admission in to American law schools.
Both France and Great Britain stress broad liberal ed-
ucation. In Germany students are admitted directly from
the secondary schools. Examinations: for admissions are
very competitive. in France and England.

Law teaching is more theoretical and didactic in
France and Germany. The case method is used exten-
sively in the United States. At Cambridge and Oxford
tutorials play important roles. German law schools pre-
pare students for the practice of law and for judgeships.
Supplementary training is required: in France one to
two years; in Germany three and one half.

While there is a surplus of lawyers in Germany, no
country represented at the conference was suffering from
scarcity of them. Many lawyers in France, Germany and
the United States enter the civil service, but in Great
Britain 70 percent of the civil servants come from special
classical or liberal studies of the universities. France has
three year schools to prepare students for the civil ser-
vice. In the United States more candidates for civil ser-
vice positions are coming from training courses given in
departments of political service. Internships in all levels
of government are increasing in the United States.

Medicine

HE GROUP reported that 60 percent of the medical

students come from the middle classes and about 25
percent of that number from families of physicians.
Practically none comes from the lower classes. For the
size of the country the United States has very few medi-
cal students — about 5,100 are graduating each year.
Although Germany has numerous clausus for medical
students relatively few are denied admission. As a result
medical schools in, Germany are very large; théy range
from 800 to 1,200 students. In the United States about
one in fourteen well qualified students is admitted to
medical schools. Competition for admission in France,
England and the United States is severe.

In Germany and Switzerland medical education is very
theoretical; little practical work is given to the medical
student, except during vacations and after he has re-
ceived a medical degree. On the other hand in France,
Britain, and the United States students in their clinical
years work in hospitals and are in constant touch with
patients. The large amount of subject matter available
requires careful selection of essential teaching materials.

Specialization, according to the committee, should be
deferred until after the degree is granted. The Medical
Group also believes that medical students should have
much practical work before they are permitted to prac-
tice. The feeling was general that the numbers in Ger-
man medical schools should be reduced.

In all continental medical education more careful check
on the progress of the medical students by periodic ex-
aminations should be made. The Swiss system of mark-
ing was specially praised. France and Great Britain pro-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

vide numerous scholarships for needy medical students
— about 75 percent are helped. In the United States and
in Germany no governmental scholarships are available.

HE COMMITTEE emphasized the need of general

education for future physicians. The committee felt
that all prospective doctors should have a thorough
course in anthropology to make them aware of the whole
human being. In British education considerable stress is
placed on the cultural values of dormitory life and
student activities. In the United States at least three
years of liberal arts training is required for admission to
medical schools and in many of the larger medical
schools graduation from college is required.

In regard to professional ethics the general feeling was
that medical students should be carefully selected and
only those who have deep sense of social responsibility
should be selected regardless of their other qualifications.
In the opinion of the group this respect for the individ-
ual and ethical principles governing the physician’s con-
duct could not be taught in courses but have to grow out
of the character of the medical students and examples
set by his teachers in medical schools and in hospitals.
It seems that in the United States more emphasis is
placed on formal instruction in professional ethics than
in the continental and British medical schools.

Teaching

HE COMMITTEE discussing the problems of educa-

tion of teachers found great similarities between the
system of Great Britain and Germany. The French were
well satisfied with their programs of teacher education,
reporting that the teacher in France seemed to be more
highly respected than in the other countries. The pro-
blem of the social status of the teacher, especially the
elementary teacher, was a matter of deep concern to the
British, the Germans and the Americans. In all four
countries most teachers come from the middle classes —
many from the agricultural classes, but better qualified
teachers in respect to cultural interests and in personal-
ity traits are desired.

In contrast to American experience, in Europe many
elementary school teachers are men. The lower salary
for the elementary teachers in Germany is a matter of
great concern. The salaries of the elementary teachers
in the United States and Great Britain are increasing.
There is a surplus of secondary teachers in all four
countries. In the United States there is marked trend
towards uniform salaries for both elementary and sec-
ondary teachers of equal training. In selection of can-
didates for teaching the committee thought that greater
care should be exercised to choosing young men and
women of promise and character.

One of the most progressive innovations reported was
that of the establishment of teacher education institutes
in Great Britain. These institutes are centered in univer-
sities and have three purposes: to supervise the teacher

Continued on page 74

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 18 ---
Following is the translation of a story published in the Neue Waiblinger Kreiszeitung May 17. At
a time when prominence is given in the German Press to unpleasant incidents, this story is unique
in that the German public is told about some of the finer aspects of German-American relations. A
subsequent account from the Seventh Army headquarters said the helping hand was initiated when
soldiers of the 11th and 36th Machine Records Units seeking to spread some traditional American
cheer to the needy at Christmas time, found the orphanage at Waiblingen, ten miles east of Stutt-
gart. They provided a series of Christmas festivities and then launched the project described in
the following German account. Also wives of the officers and soldiers have been making cookies
and assisting at special parties, and friends in the United States have sent clothing for the orphans.

Understanding through Generous Help

IHERE IS a great deal of talk nowadays about under-

standing between nations, yet nothing seems to come
of it. This talk often loses sight of the little day-to-day
happenings in the lives of individuals. But the children
of the Waiblingen Children’s Home can sing the praise
of such understanding, having experienced it a practical
way, which is all the more valuable to them since they
know nothing of political quarrels.

When “Uncle Joe” or “Uncle Bob” comes to visit them,
they have a holiday, with candy, cocoa and cake. Amer-
ican soldiers of the Seventh Army Machine Records
Division stationed in Vaihingen, the “godfathers” of the
home, do not mind playing with the kiddies in the sand-
pile, romping on the meadow or taking them by the
hand to a pastry shop. The soldiers enjoy doing so as
much as the children.

Many of us (Germans) know how it feels to be far
from home, in an unfriendly soldier’s uniform, without
family contacts. It is a small compensation for the sol-
dier when he finds at least a “reception” in the hearts of
children and sees the happiness his visits and assistance
bring to them.

The American soldiers had already collected more
than DM 700 (#167)* and purchased plates, cups, spoons

*A Seventh Army story says about $150 is being donated by
soldiers each monthly pay day.

and other urgently needed utensils. And then they asked
the enterprising head nurse, Sister Martha, what else
they could do for the home. “Perhaps paint the children’s
beds,” was the sister’s cautious reply.

Presently the soldiers, working in shifts, were busily
painting. They gave the beds a brand new color, supply-
ing the paint themselves. But this was too slow for a
certain “sergeant.” One day the Americans drove up
with trucks and took the beds to the Army paint shop.
The freshly sprayed beds were soon returned, the work
having been greatly expedited. In this manner, 103 beds
have been made to look like new. Trucks continued to
roll up, taking beds away and bringing them back, until
in all 280 had been enameled.

But the soldiers indicated that they wanted to do
more, whereupon Sister Martha hinted that they might
paint the “Jubilee building,” which had not been ren-
ovated for 25 years.

The soldiers considered the suggestion and without
any bureaucratic assistance found a way to do this job
properly and adequately. They approached the paint con-
tractors who had done their own quarters and reached
an agreement with them on a gratuitous basis which was
carried out immediately.

In the morning they took one worker from each firm
with them in a truck to Waiblingen — two of the com-

Soldiers of the Seventh Army’s 11th and 36th Machine Records Units saw to it that the children at the Waiblingen
orphanage had a party at Eastertime. (left) Sgt. James Vance helps some to the ice cream and cookies. (right) A
group of older boys are treated by SFC William Roby and Sgt. Joseph Hausmann. (Original translation of article
by Information Office, American Consulate General, Stuttgart; photos by Public Information Office, Seventh Army)

--- Page 19 ---
“et
Sgt. Charles T. Niggel and Cpl. James W. Peterson unload t
cribs for repainting by the soldiers during their off-duty ho

‘

Facilities at the Waiblingen Orphanage were very inadequate
until the American soldiers came. Here, Cpl. Raymond Macri
inspects an iron crib, badly in need of paint, as one of the in-
stitution’s nurses keeps the crib’s occupant happily entertained.

panies having furnished the paint free — and went to
work. The soldiers themselves had already cleaned the
surface with handscrapers and sandpaper.

Although the German workers took pleasure in crit-
ically observing the work of the Americans, everything
went off in good spirits, the Americans donating the
beer and the Germans some radishes for a mid-afternoon
snack.

After a few days the “Jubilee building” shone with a
newly acquired luster. Both the sisters and the children
are now happier in their home. They have asked us
(Neue Waiblinger Kreiszeitung) to extend their thanks
to all those who participated in the good cause.

Below is a letter which the commander of the Seventh
Army Machine Records Division sent to the German
paint firms, without whose cooperation the painting of

INFORMATION BULLETIN 16

the “Jubilee building” would not have been possible,
thanking them for their contributions (editor’s note: this
is not the original text but is a retranslation from the
German):

“In behalf .of the Seventh Army Machine Records
Division I should like to thank you for the time and
effort you expended in painting and repairing the or-
phanage. Without your help the work could not have
been completed so quickly and so well.

“The men of the Machine Records Division did their
very best to help the Children’s Home in every possible
way, but it required the assistance of generous people
like yourselves in order to make their work better and
more effective.

“In closing, let me again thank you for a wonderful
job.”

SEPTEMBER 1952

Pvt. Raymond Fitzpatrick smiles with satisfaction as little
admires new-looking cribs repainted by him and his bud

--- Page 20 ---
Sister Martha points out to Corporal Macri some of the spots in
the Jubilee building in serious need of complete renovation.

Working side-by-side with German painters, American soldiers
spent many off-duty hours in refurnishing the Jubilee building.

:
an
Z

§ i é ~ ™ ¥ # =
M/Sgt Vincent G. Ryan (left) unofficial director of operations,
explains his plans to a volunteer assistant, Sgt. Arthur Bamford. Sergeant Roby loads ten packages of clothing, supplies and toys

sent the orphanage by Uniontown (Pa.) High School students.

paint ‘contractors who voluntarily detailed one
per day each were: Paul Moessner und Sohn,
ah; Herman Riegraf, Fellbach; Friedrich Eh-
Stuttgart; Adolf Zimmermann, Esslingen; Oskar
Vaihingen; Gotthilf Frick, Stuttgart-W; Albert
t, Stuttgart-S; Georg Duerr, Stuttgart-O;
Veronelli, Muenster; Albert Wagner, Stuttgart-S.

Paint was donated by ‘Farbenfabrik Schaefer,
t-O and Lackfabrik Dr. Kurt Herberts, Unter-
‘im. Emil Schad of Kornwestheim and Hans-
thret of Stuttgart efficiently directed and super-
he work.

a 8esture of friendship can do more to aid inter-
‘ understanding than all the talk. Credit is due
pto the Americans and Germans who devoted
Ves to the realizing of a good deed. +END

--- Page 21 ---
The Difference

A Russian wanted to emigrate
from Germany to America. Before
boarding the ocean liner he was
handed a questionnaire with three
questions, place of birth, place of
education, and whence immigrated
into Germany. The Russian writes:

1. Born at St. Petersburg, Russian
Empire.

2. Attended school at Petrograd,
Russian Republic.

3. Immigrated
USSR.

“But this is all the same, except
for a few slight differences in ter-
minology,” the consul wonders.

from Leningrad,

“That’s right,” the Russian replies.
“That’s why I’m no longer there.”

He Can’t Invent Everything

“I know that Lomonossov in-
vented the railroad, the telephone,
the radio, the collared herring, the
aircraft and various other things.
But what didn’t he invent?” Clown
asks Clooney.

Clooney’s head appears from be-
hind the Taegliche Rundschau (So-
viet army occupation daily). “The
fairy tale of the Soviet Paradise.”

Education

A very, very old man calls at So-
viet Zone President Wilhelm Pieck’s
castle at Niederschoenhausen, asking
for an audience with the president.
It is not easy, but he manages to see
Pieck, who jovially asks him what
he wants.

“Willy,” says the old man, “don’t
you recognize me? I’m your old
school teacher.”

“My,” Pieck recollects, “this is
great. Iam glad you came to see me.
You always treated me much better
than I deserved. I’d sure like to do
something for you.”

“Well, that’s what I came about,
Willy,” the old man replies. “My
only request is: don’t tell anybody I
once taught you.”

Keep Off the Grass

“And here, gentlemen, a Mitchurin
field will be developed under the
five-year plan. After the pattern of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Soviet Zone

Refugees, visitors and unofficial
papers from East Germany bring
to Free Berlin the latest jokes
being circulated surreptitiously
among the people of the Soviet
Zone. Periodically these jokes are
collected, translated and issued as
informational material by the In-
formation Branch of HICOG’s
Berlin Element. Some of those
presented below have appeared in
German in a colorful little month-
ly satirical magazine “Tarantel”
(tarantula), labeled as published
without official permission in
Leipzig, Soviet Zone.

the great Soviet Union exotic plants
will be grown on it for the benefit
of the working people,” the officjal
guide of the Soviet Zone Informa-
tion Bureau tells a group of West-
ern newsmen.

At this moment a Soviet truck
drives up and two soldiers set up a
sign reading: “Off limits, Military
Area.”

The guide does not lose his pres-
ence of mind. “Yet, in order to pro-
tect our crops from sabotage of the
imperialist warmongers we are go-
ing to build a jet fighter base first.”

That’s Progress

A foreign delegate is greatly im-
pressed by the production statistics
at a Soviet Zone plant. “You are
amazed, aren’t you?” the works
manager asks the visitor. “In the
first year we produced only 5,000
pieces; in the second there were
50,000, and now the total has already

reached 100,000. Next year it'll be |

500,000 or even a million.”

“Really,” marvels the visitor. “But
may I inquire what you are mak-
ing?”

The manager takes a small plate
from a conveyor belt. The visitor
reads the inscription: “Elevator out
of order.” :

18

Eislerism

“Mr. Information Minister,” the
orderly reports, “the demonstration
against the Western warmongers
and for the creation of a national
army in the Soviet Zone has to be.
cancelled. It is raining cats and
dogs.”

“Those damn Yankees are capable
of anything,” Eisler shouted.

The Play

A poet in the Soviet Zone of Ger-
many has managed to write a drama
about Silesia. No stage manager is
willing to accept the play because it
is not in accord with the party line.
It includes some Silesian peasants
who are Germans, not Poles.

Finally the poet goes to see the
Soviet Zone minister of education to
obtain a recommendation for his
play. The minister reads it and
blushes with rage.

“Are you crazy, man? Such a play
can never be staged as long as Si-
lesia belongs to Poland.”

Replies the author: “All right,
then. A few more months of wait-
ing don’t really matter.”

Name Sounds Good

Otto Grotewohl is the happiest
man in the Soviet Zone. His wife
has presented him with a fine male
offspring.

Otto hurries to the registrar’s, but
is not sure what he should call the
baby.

“Well,” says the registrar. “How
about Ivan, or Peter, or Vissariono-
vich, or Vladimir.”

“No,” Grotewohl replies. “I won’t
go that far. Haven’t you got any
better ones?”

“Sure,” the official says. “How’s
Wilhelm, or Walter. Your two gov-
ernmental associates would be a
great example.”

“Er — no,”
again. “Nobody
them.”

“Now listen,” the registrar whis-
pers. “I’ve got a beautiful idea. How
about naming him Zacharias? You
can call him RIAS for short. That’s
a name everybody in the Zone loves
to hear.”

Grotewohl _ replies
in the Zone likes

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 22 ---
In and Around Germany

Bookmobile Welcomed

“We have been waiting for this for
a long time,” greeted Hans Pohl,
business manager of the adult ed-
ucation organization in Bad Wildun-
gen as the Bookmobile assigned to
the Kassel America House made its
initial appearance there recently.

Mr. Pohl and Dr. Eugen Fuchs,
director of the city archives and
museum, agreed that a regular li-
brary service was an urgent need in
Bad Wildungen since there are no
public libraries in the town of 12,000.
“Good books are not available here
either for studies or for scientific
research. We hope the success of the
bookmobile will be an incentive to
the city administration to establish a
good public library,” Mr. Pohl de-
clared.

Although it was a rainy day, the
bookmobile was crowded during the
three hours, as 168 readers were reg-
istered, reading cards issued and 230
books and a number of magazines
borrowed.

Similar experience of enthusiastic
reception and intensive use of the li-
brary facilities are reported from
other places visited in the area. A
few examples are: at the second visit
to Bad Wildungen, 358 books were
borrowed within three hours; in
rural Lippoldsberg, a town of ap-
proximately 2,000, 138 books were
borrowed; in Karlshafen, approx-
imately 3,600 population, 387 books
were borrowed; in Arolsen, approx-
imately 5,600 population, 388 books
were borrowed.

During the first three weeks of
operation, a total of 1,066 readers
were issued cards and 2,889 books
were lent.

Munich-Cincinnati Program

A 20-minute trans-Atlantic radio
Program between Radio Munich and
Station WLW in Cincinnati, Ohio,
featured a three-day festival in

SEPTEMBER 1952

Munich for raising funds for the
restoration of the twin bulb-shaped
steeples of Munich’s most prominent
edifice, the Church of Our Lady.

The broadcast program, which was
presented Aug. 9, opened with a de-
scription by German reporters of the
scene of the festival and its purpose.
Erwin Hielscher, city treasurer rep-
resenting Munich, conveyed greetings
to the “citizens of Munich’s sister
city Cincinnati and to the citizens of
Munich.” He lauded the local citizens’
committee sponsoring the festival
and thanked the citizens of Cincin-
nati for their support and coopera-
tion.

The second part of the program
originated from Cincinnati with in-
troductory remarks by Frederick
Dietrich, a Cincinnati editor, who
spoke of the broadcast as “promoting
good relations between Europe and
America.” Among other speakers
from Cincinnati was Mayor Rich who
wished the citizens of Munich success
in their enterprise.

The joint broadcast was similar to
a program presented a year before to
mark the dedicatory ceremonies cel-
ebrating restoration of St. Peter’s
Church in Munich. The local citizens’
committee has been working with a
similar committee in Cincinnati
which has adopted Munich as its
“sister city.”

The trans-Atlantic radio program
was arranged by E.G. Land, radio
officer of the US Public Affairs Field
Center in Munich, in cooporation
with the civil affairs officer of the
Munich Military Post, HICOG’s Radio
Branch and the German Services of
the Voice of America in New York.

Youth Center in Trier

AHICOG contribution of DM 33,000
(equivalent to $7,854) for assisting in
the construction of a labor-union
youth center in Trier, was presented
Aug. 28 by Albert M. Doyle, US con-

19

sul general in Frankfurt, to Albert
Ludwig, chairman of the Rhineland-
Palatinate committee of the German
Federation of Trade Unions.

The HICOG contribution was
matched by DM 37,000 ($8,806) from
German sources to reconstruct the
building in Trier. Upon completion
the center will provide transient ac-
commodations for approximately 50
boys and girls, and will be a center
for discussion groups, reading circles
and entertainment for many other
young people.

In presenting the check Mr. Doyle
told the story of Fred Treitz of
HICOG’s Office of Labor Affairs.
“Nearly 30 years ago, a 21-year-old
young man, named Fritz Treitz of
Trier, left his native city for the
United States. He changed his name
to Fred and got himself a job in a
furniture factory.”

Mr. Doyle traced the career of
Fred Treitz through World War II
when the latter started thinking of
his native city and sending packages
to the bombed city, and later making
a visit to Trier as a labor liaison of-
ficer for HICOG. While there, Mr.
Treitz talked to Fritz Bridi of the
Metal Workers Union, who pointed
out the conditions facing the youth
of the community and offered to
raise money on the German side.

“The HICOG labor liaison official
who helped make possible the forth-
coming erection of a Trade Union
Youth Center in Trier is an Amer-
ican named Fred Treitz, formerly
known as Fritz Treitz, of Trier. Fritz
Bridi, who asked for Mr. Treitz’s co-
operation, was a member of the very
same union to which Mr. Treitz had
belonged when he lived in Trier,”
Mr. Doyle said.

Aid at Lutheran Assembly

The work being carried on by the
America Houses and the Public Af-
fairs program was demonstrated to
many of the 1,500 Americans. who
attended the World Assembly of the
Lutheran Church in Hanover July 26
to Aug. 3. The presence of the large
American delegation at the confer-
ence made an excellent impression

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
generally among the population of
the Hanover area.

The Americans were taken on in-
spection tours of the Hanover Amer-
ica House and were informed about
the Public Affairs program in Ger-
many. Expressing enthusiastic views
concerning these activities, many
took with them programs of the
America House, pamphlets in English
describing the experiences of ex-
changees in the United States and
other publications which the Public
Affairs program uses to promote
democratic attitudes in Germany.

Special interest was expressed in
the selection of theological literature
compiled by the America House
especially for the occasion. A biblio-
graphy, listing materials available in
German and English in the center’s
library, was prepared for distribu-
tion through the America House and
the press office of the World Assem-
bly in Hanover’s city hall. A special
book display was set up in the li-
brary and a show-window exhibit,
coordinated with the book display,
emphasized the theme “Freedom of
Religion.” There were also special
film showings and record concerts of
religious music.

To assist the American visitors, an
information service was maintained
in the lobby of the America House.
An information sheet, listing inter-
esting places and exhibits in Han-
over'as well as information about
exchanging foreign currency, was
distributed. The receptionist served
as interpreter for the American vis-
itors and assisted with their varied
inquiries.

On the evening following the close
of the assembly, a youth forum pre-
sented representatives of eight coun-
tries on a discussion panel under the
title “Christian Youth from Five
Continents.” The discussion, attended
by 250 young persons, was one of the
most successful in the two-year his-
tory of the youth forum in Hanover.
Following the discussion, foreign
guests expressed their surprise at
finding “such a democratic discussion
of politico-religious questions in an
area so close to the Soviet Zone bor-
der.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Books for Refugee Camp

A west Berlin refugee camp has
been added to the biweekly circuit
of the bookmobile of the Berlin
America House.

The Union Hilfswerk, a refugee
group sponsored by the Christian
Democratic Party of West Berlin and
West Germany, and situated in the
Zehlendorf borough, recently re-
quested that it be included among
the stopping points of the traveling
bookmobile.

Walter Slehan, bookmobile librar-
ian, reported that as a result of the
first stops made at the camp in late
August the bookmobile would con-
tinue to visit the camp on its regular
circuit of outlying districts of the
city because of the popular response
there.

Munich Takes over Center

The transfer of the Munich Educa-
tion Service Center to the city of
Munich was completed at a ceremony
July 1, when Ralph Lewis, former
director of the center, presented the
keys of the teacher aid institution to
Dr. Anton Fingerle, city school ad-.
ministrator who was designated by
the city council of Munich as the
new director.

Dr. Fingerle will be assisted in his
new responsibility by a governing
body consisting of representatives of
the major educational agencies of
Munich. The program of the center
will follow the pattern established
by the institution when it was under
HICOG direction: the open-shelf li-
brary system will be maintained; a
lecture and discussion program pro-
viding for an exchange of viewpoints
on educational matters will be con-
tinued; and an interest in examining
the educational systems of other
lands will be promoted. As formerly,
the facilities of the center will be
available without cost to all Munich
teachers and other persons interested
in education.

Among the equipment used by the
HICOG center and turned over to
the city on a long-term loan basis
were 15,000 books in the field of ed-
ucation; audio-visual aid equipment,

20

including projectors, wire recorders
and record players, and office equip-
ment, such as typewriters, mimeo-
graph machines and furniture.

During its five years of operation
under American auspices the Educa-
tion Service Center attracted
200,000 teachers. Of these, 100,000
visited the library, where they bor-
rowed 50,000 educational books. The
remainder attended more than 2,000
special educational meetings, includ-
ing lectures, seminars, conferences,
discussion’ groups, exhibitions and
workshops. In addition, the center
organized almost 500 educational
meetings in the small towns sur-
rounding Munich and lent thousands
of films, film strips, maps and pic-
tures, as well as kindergarten equip-
ment and psychological testing de-
vices.

The popularity of the Education
Service Center program as a teacher-
aid service was indicated recently by
the arrival of 300 letters of apprecia-
tion following the announcement in
July that the Education Service Cen-
ter, as an American institution, was
being concluded.

Youthful Labor Festival

Under the theme of “We Carry the
Future,” approximately 25,000 young
labor unionists, ranging in age from
15 to 21 years, gathered in Frankfurt
July 18-20 for an international sport
and cultural festival. About one-
fourth of these were girls, and some
700 delegates came from nine other
European countries.

A mass meeting was staged the
second evening in the large audito-
rium of the Frankfurt fair grounds,
followed by a torchlight parade.
Principal speakers included Leon
Jouhaux, president of the French
anti-Communist labor union and last
year’s winner of the Nobel peace
prize: J.H. Oldenbrook of Brussels.
general secretary of the International
Conference of the Free Trade Unions,
and Georg Reuter, vice-president of
the German Federation of Trade
Unions.

Scattered groups of member:
the Communist youth organizativu
invaded the hall during the meeting

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 24 ---
and started a turmoil during Olden-
brook’s speech. In brief skirmishes,
youth guards of the festival’s organ-
ization led the offenders from the
hall.

During the second and third days,
several activities were carried on
simultaneously, including plays, sing-
ing, dancing and sports. On Sunday
morning, services were held for
Catholics and Protestants as well as
a non-church meeting on the theme
“All Men Are Brothers.” In the late
afternoon, a second mass meeting
was held in the Frankfurt stadium,
at which the chief speaker was
Christian Fette, chairman of the
German Federation of Trade Unions.

Submarine Cables Released

Two important submarine cables,
seized by the Allies during the war,
were returned to German ownership
after the Allied High Commission
informed the German Federal Gov-
ernment that the governments of the
United States, the United Kingdom
and France have waived all claims
to the seized cables.

One of the cables runs from Emden
in northern Germany to Vigo on the
northwest coast of Spain. Formerly
it was an important link in the
transmission of German and interna-
tional cable traffic to the Mediter-
ranean area and West Africa.

The other cable runs from Emden
to Dumpton Gap, near Brighton in
southern England, and was a main
outlet for Germany’s cable traffic
across the Atlantic and outside Eu-
rope.

Both these cables were severed in
the English Channel area at the
outbreak of the war and have since
remained out of use. They had been
seized by the three powers as Ger-
man external assets under Control
Council Law No. 5. They were re-
turned to the ownership of the
Deutsch - Atlantische - Telegrafen-
8esellschaft (DAT) which is at pre-
sent engaged in surveying the cables
to determine the extent of repairs
and replacements that will be neces-
Sary before they can again be
brought into operation.

SEPTEMBER 1952

Rep. Samuel W. Yorty (right) of Calif. is greeted on his arrival in Berlin by
Cecil B. Lyon, director of HICOG's Berlin Element. Accompanying Rep.
Yorty on his study of local conditions are Mrs. Yorty (left) and Carlisle Humel-

sine (second from right), deputy under secretary of state.

Accepting the return of the cables,
the Federal Government and the
DAT have confirmed that there will
be no claims against the three pow-
ers arising out of damage to or loss
of parts of the cables.

Traffic Patrols in Duesseldorf

A student traffic patrol system,
modeled after those widely used in
the United States, has been inaugu-
rated in Duesseldorf by Town Clerk
Walther Hensel in response to many
letters from parents worried over
their children’s safety in view of the
increasing automobile traffic in the
North Rhine-Westphalian metropolis.

While studying municipal admin-
istration in the United States last
year during a HICOG-sponsored ex-
change trip, Mr. Hensel paid partic-
ular attention to traffic engineering
methods. Discovering that Denver,
a city of approximately the same
population as Duesseldorf, had 128,300
more motor vehicles than Duessel-
dorf but only 31 traffic fatalities in
1950 as compared with Duesseldorf’s
93, he resolved to begin a traffic
safety campaign.

21

(BE HICOG photo)

Traffic education posters, billboards
illustrating the day-to-day traffic toll
and police surveys of traffic routing
were initiated. Since last fall traffic
education has been obligatory in the
schools. Table-mounted models of
busy street crossings, complete with
miniature automobiles, trucks and
street cars, were designed to imple-
ment this instruction.

As part of his campaign, Mr.
Hensel instructed the city’s educa-
tion office, public safety office, police
and school principals to work out
details for establishing school patrols.
A joint committee designated 94
street crossings as critical and re-
commended the training of 307 school
policeman for patrol work at these
points.

Selected school pupils of 12 to 14
years of age and teachers were
trained by the local police in traffic
education. School patrols were equip-
ped with white belts, red and white
arm bands and stop signs. Motor
vehicle operators were warned
through extensive publicity in the
local press to respect this new serv-
ice. The school patrols went into ac-
tion on April 17, the opening day of
the new school year.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
The effectiveness of the program
has been demonstrated by the good
results and the favorable reaction of
the parents, school authorities and
police.

Training Center Opened

“Europa Haus,” a leadership train-
ing center and meeting place for
European youth, was officially inau-
gurated at Marienberg-Westerwald
in Rhineland-Palatinate during a
youth forum held there May 30-June
1. The center had actually been in
operation under the aegis of the
League of European Youth (BEJ)
since Nov. 27, 1951. Its program has
included leadership training courses
stressing the idea of European Union
and discussions of the problems in-
cident to the achievement of a
European federation.

The forum, sponsored by the BEJ
and assisted by a HICOG grant, at-
tracted 70 young people from 14
nations, including West Africa and
the United States. Climax of the.
gathering was a mock parliament
which provided opportunity for
participants to become acquainted
with the work being done by the
“Jeunesse Europeennes_ Federal-
istes,” of which the BEJ is a part
and the Youth Division of the “Eu-
ropa Union.” It was conducted ac-
cording to parliamentary procedure.

Dividing themselves into three
groups—the Federalists, the Na-
tionalists, and the Independents—

the young people debated the ques-
tion of European federation.

The debate demonstrated a realis-
tic approach to the problems of the
various countries represented. Some
sample comments follow. “The activi-
ties for a federation of Europe suf-
fer from the attitude of neutrality
in Switzerland,” stated a young
Swiss. From the French side: “The
European movement seems to many
millions of French youth the only
way to prevent another war.”

A young Bulgarian exile said:
“From the news which we still
receive from the countries behind
the Iron Curtain, we can see that
the East European youth between
21 and 23 years of age put all their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

hope in the growth of a_ unified
West Europe, from which they ex-
pect the liberation of their countries.
The younger ones,” he added, “are
already trained too much in Com-
munism.”

Steel-Coal Firm Broken Up

Liquidation of the Mannesmann
Roehrenwerke of Duesseldorf was
completed by an order issued Aug.
9 by the Combined Steel Group of
the Allied High Commission.

The Mannesmann Roehrenwerke
was thus the first of the 13 “exces-
sive concentrations of economic
power,” listed under Law No. 27 for
breaking up under Allied plans for
reorganizing the German coal and
iron and steel industry, to complete
the liquidation process and to have
successor companies formed and
released from all Allied control.

The order approved the reorgani-
zation and liquidation plan, pro-

vided for the transfer of assets and
liabilities of the old company to
three new companies and _ finally

he

Wolfgang Roth, designer of the stage
settings for the American folk opera
“Porgy and Bess”,, examines fisk nets
being made in West Berlin for the
opera’s European tour. At the right
is a German seamstress, one of 20
West Berliners who constructed the
stage settings. (BE HICOG photos)

22,

provided for their release from
Allied control.

The largest of the new com-
panies is Mannesmann A.G. Dues-
seldorf with a share capital of
DM 240,000,000. It is a steel man-
ufacturing and finishing company
with integrated coal assets, and is
the largest manufacturer of seamless
tubes in Germany.

Consolidation Bergbau A.G. of
Gelsenkirchen, with a share capital
DM 53,335,400 is an independent coal
mining company.

Stahlindustrie- und Maschinenbau
A.G. of Duesseldorf, with a share
capital DM 26,666,700, includes a
variety of steel and manufacturing
enterprises.

Because there were no unduly
large shareholdings in the old Man-
nesmann Roehrenwerke, it has been
possible to distribute the shares in
the new companies to former Man-
nesmann shareholders on a simple
pro rata basis: This means that a
person who held shares of old Man-
nesmann stock will receive shares
of stock in each of the three suc-
cessor companies giving him the
same proportionate interest.

Two Chemical Firms Released

As a result of the disposal of
former I.G. Farbenindustrie hold-
ings, two German chemical firms
—Titangesellschaft m.b.H. of Lever-
kusen and Chemiewerk Homburg of
Frankfurt—have been released from
Allied control.

Titangesellschaft, which manufac-
tures paint products, thus becomes
the first of the 12 independent unit
companies that are to be formed as
a result of dispersal of I1.G. Farben
assets, to complete the process ‘of
reorganization and to be released
from control.

The action in respect of these
two companies is achieved by Orders
Nos. 1 and 2 pursuant to Regulation
No. 1 under Allied High Commission
Law No. 35. The orders are pub-
lished in the Official Gazette No. 88
issued July 22.

Order No. 1 releases Titangesell-
schaft from all Allied control. Titan-
gesellschaft will now be able to
carry out under its own initiative

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 26 ---
all the functions of a limited liabil-
ity company under German law. In
particular, all rights of the general
meeting and the supervisory board
to be elected by the general meeting
are re-established. The company’s
links with the former I.G. Farben-
industrie are completely severed,
Farben’s former holdings in the com-
pany having been acquired by the
National Lead Company.

Order No. 2 similarly releases
from control Chemiewerk Homburg.
This works formed part of the assets
remaining as a result of dispersal
of I.G. Farbenindustrie and not
required for the setting up of the 12
independent unit companies. There
has been agreement between the
Allied and German authorities that
Chemiewerk Homburg shall be ac-
quired by Degussa, a chemical works
refining non-ferrous precious metals
and manufacturing, among other
things, ingredients of washing pow-
ders.

Flick Assets Rearranged

The basic rearrangement of the
assets of the Friedrich Flick KG of
Duesseldorf in preparation for stock
distribution to successor companies
was completed with the publication
of seven orders by the Combined
Coal Control Group of the Allied
High Commission. The orders were
published in the July 31 issue of the
commission’s Official Gazette.

The orders accomplish the follow-
ing results:

1. In the interest of technical ra-
tionalization, certain mining assets
are exchanged between the two in-
dependent coal unit companies Es-
sener Steinkohlenbergwerke AG and
Harpener Bergbau AG established
on 27 June 1952.

2. Mines Grillo '/s and Grimberg
‘/: are separated from Essener Stein-
kohlenbergwerke AG and transferred
to Monopol Bergwerks AG, which is
to be affiliated with steel unit com-
pany Eisenwerk-Gesellschaft Maxi-
milianshuette mbH. However, Eisen-
werk-Gesellschaft Maximilianshuette
will lease the mines to Harpener
Bergbau AG for a transitional period
of five years.

SEPTEMBER 1952

Klaus Arons (left) first in Berlin to
register for the Selective Service in

accordance with the Presidential
proclamation of April 17, is con-
gratulated by WOJG Peter J. Ciottoni,
recruiting officer of the Berlin Mili-
tary Post, on also being the first from
Berlin to enlist in the US Army fora
regular tour of duty. Klaus, age 18,
was born in Berlin, but as a child ac-
companied his parents to the United
States where he acquired American
citizenship and attended school in
Tennessee. When his father died in
1950, he returned with his mother to
Berlin. (US Army photo)

3. Certain other mining assets of
Essener Steinkohlenbergwerke AG
are consolidated.

To compensate the stockholders of
Essener Steinkohlenbergwerke AG
for the loss of the assets in Monopol
Bergwerks AG, the Verwaltungs-
gesellschaft fuer Steinkohlenbergbau
und Huettenbetrieb mbH, which
owns Maximilianshuette, will trans-
fer to Essener Steinkohlenbergwerke
AG nominal RM 12,000,000 shares of
Harpener Bergbau AG.

Certain other transfers of stock
have been necessary in order to
ensure an equitable exchange of
assets. When the exchange is com-
pleted, Harpener Bergbau AG will
have received Mine Grimberg */4,

23

mining rights Monopol-Ostfeld, Mines
Dorstfeld and Oespel, nominal RM
12,000,000 shares of its own stock for-
merly held by Essener Steinkohlen-
bergwerke AG, 50 percent of the
shares of Chemische Werke Essener
Steinkohle AG, and Gewerkschaft
Siebenplaneten.

Essener Steinkohlenbergwerke AG
will receive, in addition to the com-
pensation for Monopolbergwerks AG,
Mine Hugo, and nominal RM 14,000,000
of its own shares formerly held by
Harpener Bergbau AG.

Verwaltungsgesellschaft fuer Stein-
kohlenbergbau und Huettenbetrieb
GmbH will receive from Harpener
Bergbau AG nominal RM_ 5,333,333
shares of Essener Steinkohlenberg-
werke AG. From Essener Steinkoh-
lenbergwerke AG, it will receive
nominal RM 5,781,000 shares of Hoch-
ofen Luebeck AG and 50 percent of
the shares of Chemische Werke Es-
sener Steinkohle AG.

A further order, published in the
Official Gazette Aug. 8, provides that
the share capital of Harpener Berg-
bau AG, Duesseldorf, shall be fixed
at DM 127,600,000. This capital is to
be divided into 1,276,000 registered
shares of DM 100 each.

Support for GYA Centers

As a result of increased troop
participation in the US Armed
Forces Assistance Program to Ger-
man Youth Activities (GYA), Sev-
enth Army units were supporting 34
of the organization’s youth centers
in August, five more than at the
beginning of the year.

Sixty-eight officers and non-com-
missioned officers are directing the
Seventh Army’s GYA program, ac-
cording to Major James W. Davis,
Seventh Army GYA officer.

“The program of constructive lei-
sure time activities for German
youth is getting significant boost
from the fine support of Seventh
Army troops,” Lt. Col. Robert A.
Norman, chief of the GYA Branch,
US Army Europe, stated. “The in-
creased interest shown by Seventh
Army personnel and their depend-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
ents is particularly helpful at this
time. Budget limitations have neces-
sitated our calling for more and
more volunteers to work in the
youth centers as leaders, organizers,
teachers and coaches.”

US Armd Forces Spending

Dollar expenditures by the US
Armed Forces in the German Fede-
ral Republic amounted to $149,200,000
during the 12-month period ended
June 30, according to HICOG’s Of-
fice of Economic Affairs. This figure
is exclusive of purchases of food,
technical equipment and other items
by official military agencies, and it
does not include purchases under the
so-called Off-Shore Procurement
Program, both of which contribute
additional dollar exchange to the
German economy.

According to figures which were
obtained from the Bank Deutscher
Laender (Bank of German States),
the EUCOM (now US Army Europe)

Comptroller’s Office, the Deutsche
Post (German postal system) and
the American Express Company,
American non-procurement expendi-
tures were:

Direct conversions by the Central
Disbursing Office — $119,600,000.

Deutsche Post receipts and conver-
sions for dollar payments of teleph-
one and telecommunication facilities
— $3,700,000.

ET Taxi receipts, obtained by the
Bank Deutscher Laender directly
from the American Express Com-
pany — $10,200,000.

Purchases by European Exchange
Service (EES) in Germany for dollars
— $15,700,000. .

In the first half of 1952, there was
a steep rise in currency conversions
by the American Armed Forces.
From July to December, 1951, such
conversions amounted to $46,600,000
whereas in the next six months,
German dollar receipts from this
type of transaction amounted to

73,000,000, bringing the total for one
year to 119,600,000. The increase is,
of course, directly attributable to the
arrival of new American troops in
the Federal Republic.

This conversion figure represents
almost entirely private expenditures
by American troops stationed within
the Federal Republic. Part of that
sum represents expenditures by mes-
ses and clubs, and for wages, non-
appropriated fund construction costs,
etc., but generally speaking, it re-
presents purchases of German goods
and services by American troops.

Whereas German receipts from the
ET Taxi service amounted to $4,800,000
during the first six months, they rose
to $5,400,000 in the second half of the
fiscal year. By the same token, Deut-
sche Post receipts rose from $1,500,000
to $2,200,200; and. EES spending ex-
panded from 6,000,000 in the last
half of 1951 to $9,700,000 in the first
half of 1952.

The total of $15,700,000 for EES

spending represents expenditures for

The Professions .....

Continued from page 14

education in their districts; to carry on a program of in-
service education for teachers; and to encourage research
projects especially within classrooms.

N THE United States there is a definite trend of teach-

ers colleges becoming general colleges with teacher
education departments. In the United States the demand
for elementary teachers with four years of college train-
ing is strong. All participants felt that all teachers should
have sound general education. Pedagogy alone is not
enough to make a well-qualified teacher. In France
philosophical training is emphasized in all years of the
teacher’s preparation. Again England relies heavily on
the dormitory system and the student activities for gen-
eral training. In Germany most elementary teachers are
graduated from two-year institutions. In the United
States general education is a definite part of teacher
education.

There was considerable discussion in this group in
regard to the nature of general education. Some looked
on general education as being only political education —
education for intelligent participation in citizenship. On
the other hand, the other fraction believed that the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

teachers needed broader intellectual training with some
political orientation. The problem of the secondary school
teachers was one that was recognized particularly in
Germany and in the United States. Many going into
high-school teaching do not originally plan to do so
but find no outlet for their university training other than
teaching. In the colleges and universities they become
highly specialized in subject matter but fail to secure
general education and special training in pedagogics
including student teaching. Many of them do not have
the abilities or personalities to become successful teach-
ers in secondary schools.

PROFESSOR Litt in his summary remarks emphasized

that professors held the keys to university reform. He
urged his listeners to become “loud speakers” in their
respective institutions to urge more rigid selection of
candidates for the professions. He felt that each profes-
sor in Germany should become a teacher of general
education. He said:

Other nations are happier than we in that they
have a better political “climate” — a democratic
tradition in which it is easier to teach in the realms
of politics and social science. We cannot merely hand
these things on to the younger generation but must
at the same time create what is to be handed on.
Every professor ought to ask himself to what extent
he has lived up to his responsibility in these fields.

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 28 ---
goods in Germany which are sold
for dollars in EES installations.
These goods include such items as
beer, cameras, watches and cuckoo
clocks. Wages for employees, con-
struction costs, etc., which are paid
for entirely out of EES operating
costs, are included in the conversion
figure shown above.

Thus far, no exact figures on mili-
tary procurement expenditures in
Germany by American forces have
been made public, but purchasing has
begun and will steadily assume
greater importance as the program
advances. Several contracts already
have been signed with German firms
and negotiations are being carried
out with a view to increasing the
Federal Republic’s participation in
the program.

The 1952 Mutual Security Act, ap-
proved by the US Congress some
weeks ago, authorized US military
establishments to negotiate off-shore
procurement contracts in Europe
amounting to $1,000,000,000 during
the year ending June 30, 1953. It is
impossible to say at this time, how-

ever, what percentage of this amount
will be allocated to the Federal Re-
public.

As has been pointed out by Am-
bassador William H. Draper, special
US representative in Europe, pro-
curement contracts negotiated under
the MSA act are payable in dollars
and should permit the importation
from the dollar area of additional
raw materials, machinery and other
goods for increasing each country’s
own defense production effort and
for maintaining or raising the civil-
ian standard of living.

Schurz Anniversary
Commemorations in the German
Federal Republic of the 100th an-
niversary of Carl Schurz’ arrival in
the United States Sept. 17 will be
topped by a celebration sponsored by
the Steuben-Schurz Society in Frank-
furt’s historical Paul’s Church*.

US High Commissioner Walter J.
Donnelly, who for the first time

since assuming his new post is to
speak before a

large German au-

mee

As part of the American Youth Activities program in Berlin, beginners’ les-
sons in the rudiments of swimming have been initiated for the children of
the American community. Under the guidance of PFC Jack Parks (in water)
the children are receiving instruction in the children’s pool at Berlin’s Olym-

pic Stadium.

SEPTEMBER 1952

(US Army photo)

25

dience, and Vice Chancellor Franz
Bluecher were invited as the pro-
minent guest speakers.

Carl Schurz was born 1829 in a
little village near Cologne. A stu-
dent of the University of Bonn, he
participated in the 1848 revolution
against the authoritarian Prussian
government, and after that was
persecuted by Prussian authorities
for his fierce battle for right and
freedom. He left Germany and
landed in the United States Sept.
17, 1852. A brillant speaker, he
fought oppression, injustice and cor-
ruption in the new country, was a
brigadier general in the Civil War,
then US senator for Missouri, and
as secretary of the interior was
largely responsible for Civil Service
Reform.

To make the German population
familiar with the personality of this
man, who devoted energy and life
to fighting for freedom in Germany
as well as in the United States, the
Frankfurt Steuben-Schurz Society in
conjunction with various ministries
of culture distributed approximately
500,000 biographical brochures and
130,000 posters with sketches from
the life of Carl Schurz to the 33,000
schools in the Federal Republic.

On request of the Steuben-Schurz
society the German Federal Post
Ministry will issue a special an-
niversary stamp with a portrait of
Carl Schurz in his younger years.

A traveling exhibit entitled “Carl
Schurz and the 1848 movement” will
be opened subsequent to the official
ceremony in Paul’s Church. Later,
the display featuring Schurz’ part in
the German revolution of 1848, will
be shown in Stuttgart, Bremen,
Hamburg, Bonn and eventually in
Munich and Berlin. It will be on
display for two weeks in each city.

The organization of the traveling
exhibit will be the first cooperative
effort of the Schurz societies in
Frankfurt and Bremen as well as
other groups promoting German-
‘American relations in the cities in-
cluded in the itinerary, which so
far have functioned independently.

*Assembly site of Germany’s revolution-
ary parliament of 1848.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Outside Germany

Commission Disbanded

The United Nations commission,
set up to investigate conditions for
free elections in Germany, an-
nounced Aug. 6 in Geneva that it
had decided to disband because of
Soviet Russia’s refusal to permit the
commission to function in East Ger-
many.

The commission noted that while
waiting for Soviet cooperation an
exchange of notes between the So-
viet Union and Britain, France and
the United States had occurred, and
reports had been studied on internal
developments in the Soviet Zone of
Germany.

These developments, the commis-
sion stated, have been “such as not
to afford any prospect that German
authorities in the Soviet Zone of
Germany will cooperate with the
commission in the furtherance of
its work.”

The commission was established
by the UN General Assembly in
Paris last December as a neutral
organization with members from
Brazil, Iceland, the Netherlands and
Pakistan.

The purpose of the commission
was to survey the conditions for
free elections throughout Germany
as a basis for the free unification
of the one-third of Germany under
Soviet control with the two-thirds
of Germany in the west.

The commission noted that in
April this year, soon after its forma-
tion, it had secured “every assurance
of cooperation and every facility
requested from the Allied high com-
missioners, authorities of the Federal
Republic of Germany and of the
western sectors of Berlin.

“It will also be recalled,” the
commission stated, “that the com-
mission in spite of repeated attempts
made to establish reciprocal con-
tact with authorities in the Soviet
Zone of Germany and in the eastern
sector of Berlin, was given no an-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

swer to its letters by the Soviet
Control Commission for Germany.

“The commission was therefore
obliged to conclude that, at that
time, there was little prospect of
its being able to pursue its task.”

Meanwhile, the Soviet Union had
begun a voluminous exchange of
notes with Britain, France and the
United States insisting on an im-
mediate conference to plan a peace
treaty with a unified Germany.

Officials noted that the Soviet
proposals came at a time when the
45,000,000 people of Free Germany
were being granted virtual sover-
eignty under contractual arrange-
ments with the three Western na-
tions.

Officials pointed out at the time
that the Soviet proposals were ob-
viously designed to obstruct the pro-
gress of Free Germany with a false
propaganda appeal to German senti-
ments for unification.

The three Western Powers made
it clear in replies to three succes-
sive Soviet notes that their policies
since the end of the war have been
directed toward the eventual unifi-
cation of Germany. They suggested
that unification could be established
only through a free expression of
the people of all Germany in free
elections. As a first step they sug-
gested that a survey for the car-
rying out of free elections be made
by the neutral United Nations com-
mission already in existence.

The Soviets refused to accept this
commission and proposed that the
survey be made by a commission
made up of representatives of the
four nations concerned. The three
Western nations rejected this pro-
posal, however, on the ground that
it would merely continue in min-
iature the situation that led to the
original split in Germany.

In announcing its adjournment, the
United Nations commission stated
that it would continue to remain at
the disposal of the United Nations
and all parties concerned to carry
out its assigned task.

26

Personnel Notes

Consul General at Stuttgart

Edward E. Rice has been ap-
pointed US consul general at Stutt-
gart to succeed Patrick Mallon. Mr.
Mallon has been appointed consul
general at Leopoldville, Belgian
Congo, a post he held early in
World War II.

Born in Saginaw, Mich., Mr. Rice
studied in Milwaukee and graduated
from the University of Illinois. In
1935 he joined the US Department
of State after studying at the Na-
tional University of Mexico and
working in the export-import field.
Subsequently, he served at Foochow,
Kumming and Chunking, China.
Following this service he was made
assistant chief of the State Depart-
ment’s Division of Chinese Affairs,
and later occupied a similar position
in the Division of Philippine Affairs.
In the spring of 1949 Mr. Rice be-
came first secretary and consul at
Manila.

A graduate of Yale University,
Mr. Mallon is a native of Cincin-
naty, Ohio. He joined the US Foreign
Service in 1931 and served succes-
sively at Leipzig, Nassau, Singa-
pore, Capetown, Colombo, Stockholm
and Leopoldville. A veteran of World
War I, Mr. Mallon was deputy US
political adviser to the commanding
general of the India-Burma theater
in the latter part of World War II.
He was appointed consul general at
Stuttgart in February, 1950.

On the departure last June of
Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, Mr.
Mallon assumed the additional du-
ties of US state commissioner for
Baden-Wuerttemberg.

General Manager Leaves

Richard R. Brown has resigned
his position as general manager of
the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
to return to Washington, D.C.

As general manager, Mr. Brown
has been responsible for the budget
and administration of the extensive
Public Affairs program of informa-

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 30 ---
Richard R. Brown

tional, educational and exchange-
of-persons activities in Germany.

Born in Littleton, Colo., Mr. Brown
took his bachelor of arts degree from
the University of Denver in 1926,
and his master of arts in 1927. He
taught for 12 years in the schools
of Denver and for three years at
the University of Denver.

In 1935 he served as Colorado
state youth director for a_ brief
period and then became executive
director of the National Youth Ad-
ministration in Washington, a post
he held until 1938. Mr. Brown then
served briefly as associate director
of the American Youth Commission
of the American Council of Educa-
tion. From 1939 to 1941 he was
deputy chief of distributions for the
Surplus Marketing Administration,
responsible for free school lunches
and the food stamp plan.

During the war, Mr. Brown suc-
cessively held posts as assistant chief
of apprenticeship and in-plant train-
ing, Department of Labor; executive
director of the National War Labor
Board; director of the Executive
Office of the President, and director
of the Central Administrative Serv-
ice for all war agencies.

From 1944 through 1948 he was
director general and chief executive

SEPTEMBER 1952

Patrick Mallon

officer of the United Nations Relief
and Rehabilitation Administration
(UNRRA), and in 1949 joined the
Department of State as a director
of the Executive Staff, Economic
Area.

Mr. and Mrs. Brown have two
children, Laurel Jean, a student at
Wellesly, studying this year at the
University of Geneva, Switzerland,
and Richard, Jr., a student at Ohio
Wesleyan.

Exchanges Chief Departs

Dr. Ralph A. Burns, chief of the
Exchange of Persons Staff, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, has resigned
his position to return to his profes-
sorship of education at Dartmouth
College in Hanover, N.H.

Working with the US Government
in Germany for the past four years,
Mr. Burns developed the Exchanges
Program which, under his leader-
ship, grew from an exchange of 123
students and teachers in 1948 to a
program which has interchanged ap-
proximately 10,000 persons between
Germany and the United States and
western European nations.

Designed to enable Germans to
study democracy in action, the Ex-

27

Ralph A. Burns

changes Program has helped in
building a bridge of understanding
between participating countries. It
is the largest such program operated
by the US Department of State.

Mr. Burns was head of the Depart-
ment of Education at Dartmouth
College when he joined the staff of
the Education and Cultural Relations
Division, Office of Military Govern-
ment for Germany (US), in Berlin in
1948. Shortly thereafter he was
named deputy chief.

When the Office of the US High
Commissioner replaced Military
Government in October 1949, he was
appointed chief of the newly-created
Exchange of Persons Staff. Since
that time he has directed the pro-
gram. At the present time the pro-
gram, is sending more than 2,000
Germans to the United States each
year, approximately 1,000 to Euro-
pean countries, and bringing several
hundred American and European
specialists to Germany to assist
organizations and institutions.

During World War II, Dr. Burns
served in the US Army from 1942
to 1945 with the rank of lieutenant
colonel, and he was chief of person-
nel for the Office of Strategic Serv-
ices.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
SAUCUDALUUNUEDAEAGUAGHEOUAANUULOCEOODAOUEOOCUOOEOEDOOUEUEEGECOOGUEUOLUINDODLOGEONOGENOODEGUUDEAUUGOOOEDSEOOUGEDEGUDNONEONOGNOREOOONOOEOOUONL

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking. The selection has been made so as to
cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and
to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any
event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US
authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by
the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

STAAMUAUAUEALULOGEGOADADOUAOUOUUGEOUGLOUEOAONOUAONLUCEOUGDEOEGUOUCOESEOLEGUOEOOUOUOEOOUOUGDOGOGOGUOHUOEGOGUADUOOGONUEGEGNOUNDEOUGDNUNOOOUOGOOEUUOUNOGES

The Soviet Note

Skepticism and caution, if not out-
right rejection of the Soviets’ latest
move in the German reunification
issue, were the two main attitudes
expressed by the majority of Ger-
man newspapers in their editorial
comment Aug. 25 and 26. Papers
generally asked their readers not to
be over-optimistic in their evalua-
tion of the note, stressing that, de-
spite some of the tempting aspects
contained in the note the fact re-
mained that the Kremlin wanted the
establishment of an all-German gov-

ernment prior to holding general
elections.
Under the headline “Wrong Se-

quence,” Koelnische Rundschau (Co-
logne), close to Federal Government,
after stating in a front-page edito-
rial that one of the most important
results emerging from the discus-
sions on Germany was the fact that
a future peace treaty “will be signed
with Germany as a partner,” went
on to say that “he who is for peace
can achieve it only via all-German
elections as the first step, followed
by the formation of a German gov-
ernment second, and the peace treaty
third.”

The paper then scored the Soviets
for having turned this sequence
around, permitting no other conclu-
sion: to be drawn than that the
“Kremlin’s real intentions differ
from what they purport to be.”
Summing up the situation, the paper
concluded: “It is not impossible that
they will sit down at a conference
table in October, but may we be
spared the fate that an agreement is

INFORMATION BULLETIN

reached on (rather than with) Ger-
many, for this would lead us straight
back to Potsdam.”

Der Tag (Berlin) wondered wheth-
er the Soviets really are interested
in a united Germany. “It appears,”
the paper said, “that they want to
find out first what price the Western
Powers might be willing to pay for
free elections... One thing is ob-
vious: If it were up to the Soviets
Germany will pay with a return to
the Potsdam Agreement and with a
neutralist policy which more or less
are unacceptable conditions.”

In an attempt to analyze the So-
viet aims, Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stutt-
gart) opined that there were two
ways open to the Kremlin to secure
a sphere of influence and prevent
aggression by Germany or via Ger-
man territory: either to neutralize
Germany according to the Teheran,
Yalta and Potsdam conferences, or
to mobilize the forces of the Soviet
Zone in retaliation to the Federal
Republic’s partnership with the
West. For that reason, the paper
claimed, the establishing of a Ger-
man Government and general elec-
tions were only secondary problems
to the Russians.

“A four-power meeting dealing
only with free elections,” the paper
went on to say, “would mean a Ca-
nossa for the Russians. A united
Germany with a freely elected gov-
ernment bound by the Paris and
Bonn agreements would not only
eliminate hopes for a neutralization
but also challenge Russian influence
even beyond the East German
border. The Russians, who after

28

King Kong runs amok. Westfaelische

Rundschau (Dortmund), July 10.

Germany’s defeat became conscious
of being a world power of the first
magnitude can hardly be expected
to help America rearm Germany
Americans, on the other hand, do
not want to achieve a balance of
power by a four-power conference,
they want to tip the scales to their
advantage. Without new suggestions
from the West, all future discussions
with the East will lead to nowhere.”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) be-
lieved that concerning the free-elec-
tion issue, there are some changes
for the better in the recent Soviet
note, “the value of -which we do not
overestimate. There is good reason
to eye with suspicion the sequence
on the agenda as proposed by the
Russians. But is it advisable,” the
paper asked, “to refuse to confer
with the Russians, just because one
harbors suspicions against thém?”

Radio Stuttgart stressed that the
recent Soviet note was just another
propaganda move designed to bolster
sovietization of the Russian zone and
to influence French public opinion
regarding this problem.

General-Anzeiger (Bonn) wrote:
“The Soviet Union wants to take no
chances with free elections in all-
Germany, since the USSR cannot
hope that the outcome of such elec-
tions would be favorable to the
Kremlin-directed Communist Party.
In order to make sure that Germany
cannot line up with the West,” the
paper continued, “the Russians have
also demanded that talks on a peace
treaty be placed as the first item

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 32 ---
on the agenda. In that peace treaty,
the Soviets would include a clause
forbidding Germany to form any
kind of alliances with her wartime
enemies.”

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt), calling the Soviet note “large-
ly contradictory and hypocritical”
expressed the belief that a con-
ference on the agenda would prove
to be as fruitless as were the pre-
vious talks when no agreement in
that respect could be reached.

Welt (Hamburg) commented with
little enthusiasm on the Moscow
note. “The Western Allies have never
rejected a four-power conference
which might lead to a German peace
treaty,” the paper said. “However,
the West and the Federal Republic
have always believed with good
reason that the establishment of a
new Germany on democratic prin-
ciples should precede such a peace
treaty. Therefore, the West and the
Federal Republic have always
stressed the importance of free elec-
tions from the very beginning.”

Summing up the Russian note,
Welt concluded that one will hardly
find “any positive elements” in the
Kremlin proposals. The West should,
however, study them carefully to see
whether the note offers any opening
which would enable the West to con-
tinue discussions with Moscow, and
which might ultimately lead toward
an East-West understanding and to
a solution of the German problem.

Rhein-Zeitung (Koblenz) voiced
the opinion that if the West were
to accept the Russian proposals, the
resulting four-power conference
would end in a fiasco. “There would
be no freedom for the German
people,” the paper continued, “but
only a great danger.”

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frank-
furt) opined that Russia may now
be willing to withdraw from its oc-
cupation zone in Germany and per-
mit free elections for a price: “This
price is familiar to us — they want
to separate Germany from the West-
ern defense system.” The paper
speculated that Russia may now
agree to Germany’s participation in
the Coal and Steel Pool (Schuman
Plan).

Montag-Morgen, Monday edition
of the Telegraf (Berlin) did not doubt
that the four points of the Soviet
note “are the four problems for
which a solution has to be found.
But as to the agenda proposed in the
last Western note, the Soviets just
want to go the other way around
which will definitely lead to a dead-
end street. Perhaps the right way to
reach the goal is the idea of the
late SPD leader Dr. Kurt Schumacher
who gave preference to the reunifica-
tion problems.”

How Bad is Unemployment?

During the past few weeks, pro-
government papers prominently re-

German Cartoons on the Saar Question

The little fellow always disturbs
our tete-a-tete. — from Hambur-
ger Abendblatt (Hamburg), Aug. 4.

SEPTEMBER 1952

Hallstein: I don’t believe the artist
knows what it is supposed to be.
Neue Ruhr-Zeitung (Essen), Aug. 2.

29

ported statistics to show that un-
employment declined sharply during
the last few years; pro-Social Dem-
ocrat papers stressed that there are
still more than a million unem-
ployed in West Germany. A front-
page editorial in the Frankfurter
Allgemeine (Frankfurt, Aug. 19) tried
to balance these conflicting points of
view.

The Allgemeine reported that
there are more jobs in the Federal
Republic today than there were in
1938 during Hitler’s rearmament
boom (15,300,000 compared to
12,240,000 in 1938) and that only
seven percent of German workers
are unemployed; also, that Lord
Keynes spoke of “full employment”
when not more than eight percent
of the workers are unemployed.
Nevertheless, the Frankfurt news-
paper continued, a country cannot
be satisfied as long as 1,150,000
workers are unemployed and their
families living on the dole. Labor
experts today redefine “full employ-
ment” to mean that not more than
four percent of the workers are un-
employed at any one time.

There are two possibilities for re-
ducing unemployment in Germany
today: unemployed in out-of-the-way
places should be moved to areas
with a better labor market; unem-
ployed in the wrong line of work
should be helped to make a new be-
ginning in a new line of work. All
such efforts will take time and de-

European family at home: “Doesn't
the father have some rights too?” -
Welt am Sonntag (Hamburg), Aug. 3.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
pend on the active cooperation of
the unemployed.

America House Praised

Excellent coverage was given by
the local German press to the ac-
tivities presented during the mid-
June “America House Week” of the
US Information Center in Ingolstadt,
Bavaria. The program, arranged by
Birger Berg, director of the Ingol-
stadt America House, included a
concert by the American soprano
Helen Phillips, a lecture by a Mu-
nich architect on “Modern Architec-
ture,” a lecture and discussion on
“Can School Youth Contribute to the
Building Up of Democracy,” a quiz
evening for young people and daily
film showings.

The Ingolstaedter Zeitung took
the opportunity to deal in detail
with the work of the America House
in an article from which the follow-
ing passages are quoted:

“The Ingolstadt America House
is prominent among the Information
Centers of Upper Bavaria. Artists
who come to our town like to make
use of its facilities in which local
youth takes a strong interest. While
in 1948 there were 2,500 volumes on
the shelves of the America House
library, their number had almost
doubled in 1951. The number of re-
gistered readers increased from 848
in 1948 to 3,000 in 1951. While 12,000

Adenauer on Vacation: The cabinet
boys playing policy, confident that
the boss will repair the damage. —
from Deutsche Zeitung und Wirt-
schaftszeitung (Stuttgart), August 2.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

people visited the reading room in
1948, 66,000 visitors were counted in
1951.

“If one considers that the library
has 200 daily visitors, on an average,
and that about 150 books are lent
out per day, its importance for the
town and county of Ingolstadt be-

comes evident... The America
House works in close cooperation
with the schools..., the Teachers’

Training College and the Commer-
cial School; it cooperates on the
friendliest of terms with the adult
evening school, the concert society,
the municipal theater and the cul-
tural association... as well as with
labor unions, industrial enterprises,
etc.

“America House film activities fall
on particularly good soil with the
German population... The Ingol-
stadt America House is very popular
with the Ingolstadters.”

Catholic Convention

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt, Aug. 21) editorializing on the
help given by the Protestant Church
of Berlin to the Catholic Convention
in Berlin, stated that the persecution
of Christians in the Soviet Zone has
made it clear to Catholics and Prot-
estants alike that only their com-
bined forces can successfully fight
atheism. According to the paper,
the Protestants placed their churches
at the disposal of the convention
since the Catholics are not allowed
to use halls in the Soviet Sector of
Berlin for their meetings.

The paper also said that the Cath-
olics of Magdeburg in the Soviet
Zone invited the Protestants to as-
semble in their largest church since
Protestant inhabitants in the Soviet
Zone will not receive passes to
participate in the Protestant Con-
vention in Stuttgart (Aug. 27-31).
The paper further reported that
Protestant Berliners were asked by
their ministers to accomodate Cath-
olic guests to the convention and
that the Catholic archbishop of
Munich and Freising, Dr. Wendel,
would stay in the house of the Prot-
estant bishop of Berlin and Bran-
denburg, Dr. Dibelius.

30

First schoolday in the Soviet Zone. —
from Wiesbadener Kurier (Wies-
baden), Aug. 20.

Elections Straws

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt, Aug. 31) claimed in an editorial
that recent byelections for the state
legislatures in North Rhine-West-
phalia and Lower Saxony may serve
as a “political yardstick” for the
next federal parliamentary elections.

In both states, the paper claimed
byelection results had not followed
predictions, but had proved that “the
voter is not part of a mass which it
is easy to push around, but that he
is capable of making up his own
mind. The elections have further-
more revealed that voters trust in-
dividual parties more than the party
blocs which consist of minority
groups and offer no particular plat-
forms.”

Westfaelische Rundschau (Dort-
mund), commenting likewise on the
byelections that gave the ‘Social
Democratic Party a _ considerable
lead in the North Rhine-West-
phalian district, claimed that the
federal chancellor’s policy of “mon-
opolizing important decisions” had °
isolated his government coalition
and had alienated it in respect to
the will of the people.” The paper
predicted that “Social Democrats
can look forward with great con-
fidence to any future tests of
strength” because “an unwavering
and straight course has always led
to success.”

In the North Rhine-Westphalia
election, Dr. Hermann Henningsen
of the Social Democratic Party won
the state legislature seat left vacant
by the death of Carl’ Severing,
former Reichsminister of the inte-

SEPTEMBER 1952

--- Page 34 ---
rior. However, in Lower Saxony,
Richard Zahn, candidate of the
Christian Democratic Union, won
the legislature seat of the late Hein-
rich Specht, SPD deputy.

Library in Schwaebisch Hall

“What the People of Schwaebisch-
Hall Like to Read” was the title of
a feature article recently published
by the Haller Tagblatt, newspaper
of the town of about 20,000 in north-
eastern Baden-Wuerttemberg. The
American reading room was estab-
lished there in 1948 and turned over
to German management in 1951.

“As it made its offerings free of
charge and was, moreover, con-
nected with a lecture program,”
commented the writer of the article,
“it grew ever more popular, part-
icularly with youth, which is known
not to be conservative...” On Au-
gust 1, 1951, the American Library
was merged with the local Public
Library. But though the same roof
shelters both institutions, the Amer-
ican Library has been able’ to pre-
serve its individuality under the
new municipal administration.”

The article continued: “3,167 vol-
umes stand on the shelves of the
American Library, 2,048 are in Eng-
lish and 1,119 in German. The Ger-
man language volumes are chiefly
translations of books by American
authors, with a sprinkling of Eng-
lish writers and some emigrant lit-
erature.

“Monthly statistics can teach us a
great deal. Choosing as a sample the

AL

ae

Results of the heat wave: The mon-
ster of Loch Ness in competition with
flying saucers. — from Hamburger

Abendblatt (Hamburg), August 6.

SEPTEMBER 1952

month of May 1952, we learn that
during this period 330 English and
1,042 German books were lent out.
Visitors’ attendance (including the
patrons of the magazine room) was
1,792. The number of readers’ cards,
1,202, reveals that not all these vis-
itors are registered readers. But if
one remembers that in Aug. 1951 (just
after the transfer to German spon-
sorship) only 746 readers’ cards had
been issued, there is every reason to
be satisfied with the progress.

“1,400 volumes constitute the book
stock of the Public Library, but un-
fortunately very little use is made
of them. While in May the Amer-
ican Library’s book circulation was
1,042 German and 330 English books,
the Public Library lent out only 120
volumes during that period...

“Now we come to our initial ques-
tion: what do the people of Schwae-
bisch-Hall like to read? Library vis-
itors, it seems, take an overwhelm-
ing interest in two books which are
hardly ever to be had because they
are so much in demand: Bromfield’s
The Great Rain and Robinson’s The
Cardinal. Next in favor are works by
Hemingway, Steinbeck, Thomas
Wolfe, etc. In general it can be said
that readers prefer modern Amer-
ican authors to the old German ones.

“Youth is interested in tales of
adventure and travelogues. Cooper’s
Leather Stocking Tales and Harriet
Beecher Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin
are firm favorites. Biographies are
also much in demand. English lan-
guage books have particularly keen
readers among the students of our
two high schools.

“Interesting as these statistical
figures are, they do not quite answer
the question of what the 20,000 in-
habitants of Schwaebisch-Hall like
to read. But they give a fair indi-
cation of what is popular today and
which books youth, in particular,
prefer.”

German-American Relations

The proposal that a German-
American committee be established
to foster better understanding and
cooperation between Germans and

31

Stalin’s disarmament proposal: “Ev-
eryone of us turns in one pistol!” —
from Rheinischer Merkur (Koblenz),
Aug. 22.

the American forces was discussed
by the Frankfurter Rundschau
(Frankfurt, Aug. 18). The paper sug-
gested that such a committee would
be the proper platform for discuss-
ing the problems of the Germans
who suffered material damage be-
cause of the occupation:

“The Germans whose homes were
requisitioned by the Allies resent
this bitterly... In this connection
the announced establishment of a
German-American consultative com-
mittee is a hopeful sign... However,
everything depends on the under-
standing and cooperation of the of-
ficers of the US forces. In our rela-
tions with them we missed often
that which was so important in our
good relations with the American
civilian officials: an open-minded
understanding for the German situa-
tion and for our points of view —
and above all, the courage to adjust
to changing times.”

Concluding, the paper hoped that
future German-American relations
will be marked by good-will and
understanding.

The Krupp Fortune

Hamburger Abendblatt (Ham-
burg, Aug. 20) asked who will take
over the coal and steel producing
plants of the Krupp concern now
that Krupp will keep only process-
ing plants. Referring to the recent
negotiations for the sale of Krupp
mines, the paper warned not to let
so big a part of the German heavy
industry get into the hands of for-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Soviet Zone progress — step by step
ahead. — from Hannoversche Presse
(Hanover), Aug. 8.

eign owners; under foreign control,
these plants might be used for pur-
poses contrary to the best economic
interests of the Federal Republic.
The ownership of such plants is still
an important question, even though
there exists a European coal and
steel pool.

SPD Views on Neutralization

The late SPD leader, Kurt Schu-
macher, would have been the last
person to have placed any faith in
the professedly friendly Soviet pro-
posals regarding Germany, wrote
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
(Frankfurt, Sept. 4) in a front-page
editorial on the SPD’s position in
reference to the Federal Republic’s
foreign policy.

Stressing that Erich Ollenhauer,
now leading the SPD, shared Mr.
Schumacher’s view on this subject
when he publicly stated, that at the
present time a neutralization of Ger-
many was inconceivable, the paper
continued: “One cannot end all dis-
cussions on foreign policy by merely
stating that one is opposed to the
present government’s position as well
neutralization plans. He who says
‘nay’ to both — viz. the Social Dem-
ocrats — should also state with what
he intends to replace the Western
treaties. So far the opposition (SPD)
has failed to do so.”

The paper concluded that the SPD
is actually not opposed to Adenauer’s
foreign policy on principle but that it
is displeased with the federal chan-
cellor for having failed to secure

more favorable clauses in the West-.

ern treaties.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“If this conclusion is correct,”
Allgemeine Zeitung continued, “only
one problem remains, and this is the
(SPD’s) position on foreign policy:
Is it wise to reject the treaties alto-
gether solely because they failed to
forestall the great political dangers
to Germany, or because certain de-
sires, however justified they may
be, have not been fulfilled?”

Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 14

The 93rd meeting of the Council
of the Allied High Commission was
held Aug. 14 at Mehlem. Present
were Mr. Walter J. Donnelly, United
States High Commissioner (chair-
man); Mr. Armand Berard, Deputy
French High Commissioner, rep-
resenting Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet;
and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United
Kingdom High Commissioner.

This was the first meeting of the
Council to be attended by Mr.
Donnelly.

The Council approved a federal
law, passed by the Bundestag and
the Bundesrat, amending the Basic
Law of the Federal Republic in order
to facilitate the implementation of
the equalization of burdens legisla-
tion.

The law provides for the insertion
into the Basic Law of Article 120a,
which is designed to create the con-
stitutional basis for federal control
over the implementation of federal
legislation for the equalization of
burdens. Under the principle of
Article 83 of the Basic Law, the
carrying out of federal legislation is
a matter within the jurisdiction of
the states unless the Basic Law pro-
vides otherwise. Article 120a exempts
federal equalization of burdens leg-
islation from the principle of state
responsibility. Thus, the federation is
enabled to exercise its influence to
assure uniformity of implementation
of this legislation.

The decision approving the amend-
ment to the Basic Law will be pub-
lished in the Official Gazette of the
Allied High Commission.

At the end of the meeting, the
Council expressed its warm appre-
ciation of the services rendered to
the High Commission by Col. George
P. Glain, the French = secretary-
general, who is leaving the post he
has occupied since the establishment
of the High Commission in order to
take over a military command.

Following is the text (unofficial trans-
lation) of the new Article 120a to be

inserted into the Basic Law of the Fed-
eral Republic:

32

“(1) The laws implementing the Equal-
ization of Burdens may, with an affirm-
ative vote of the Bundesrat, provide that
in the field of equalization payments they
shall be executed in part by the Federa-
tion and in part by the Laender (states)
acting on behalf of the Federation, and
that the powers vested in that respect in
the Federal Government and the appro-
priate Central Federal Authorities under
Article 85 may, in whole or in part, be
delegated to the Federal Equalization Of-
fice. In exercising these powers the Fed-
eral Equalization Office shall not require
the affirmative vote of the Bundesrat;
except in cases of urgency, its instruc-
tions shall be addressed to the Central
Land Authorities (State Equalization Of-
fices).

“(2) Article 87, paragraph 3,
sentence, shall not be affected.”

Note: The sentence of Article 87 (3)
referred to above reads as follows:

second

“If new functions arise for the Fed-
eration in matters on which it has the
power to legislate, federal administrative
agencies at intermediate and lower levels
can be established, in case of urgent
need, with the consent of the Bundesrat
and of the majority of the members of
the Bundestag.”

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received in the editorial of-
fice of the Information Bulletin during
August. Requests for any of these pub-
lications should be addressed to the orig-
inating agency.

Kontakt (Contact), Vol. 1, No. 4, Ex-
changes Staff, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), July 1952. Magazine
in German about and for returned ex-
changees.

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVII, No. 682, Division of Publications,
Office of Public Affairs, Department of
State (Washington), July 21, 1952. Con-
tents include: “United Efforts Speed
Migration from Europe,” article by
George L. Warren, and “US, UK,
France Propose Four Power Meeting to
Discuss Commission on German Elec-
tions.”

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVII, No. 683, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), July 28,
1952. Contents includ ‘Progress toward
European Integration,” from 10th Quar-
terly Report of the US High Commis-
sioner.

Official Gazette, No. 89, Allied Secretariat,
Allied High Commission (Mehlem), July
31, 1952. Official texts of legislation and
orders enacted by or under authority
of the Allied High Commission.

Der Monat (The Month), No. 47, Informa-
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Berlin), August 1952.

Foreign Service News Letter, No. 66, Of-
fice of Director General of the Foreign
Service, Department of State (Washing-
ton), August 1952. Limited distribution.

Buecher Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 70,
US Information Centers Branch, Divi-
sion of Cultural Affairs, Office of Pub-
lic Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 25,
1952, List of books to be distributed
among the America Houses in Germany.

Official Gazette, No. 90, Allied Secretariat,
Allied High Commission (Mehlem), Aug. :
8, 1952. Includes official texts of leg-
islation and orders enacted by or
under authority of the Allied High
Commission.

Information Bulletin, July issue, Informa~
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 29, 1952.

SEPTEMBER 1953:

--- Page 36 ---
Reenactment
of the
Linse Kidnaping

Dr. Walter Linse, member of the Investigating
Committee of Free Jurists of the Soviet Zone,
left his home in West Berlin the morning of July
8 to go to his office. He was accosted by “three
unidentified persons” who forced him into a wait-
ing automobile and in a wild ride carried into the
Soviet Zone. Repeated demands for Dr. Linse’s
safe return to the Soviet authorities have brought
no satisfactory results or explanation.

The abduction of Dr. Linse (portrait at right)
was reenacted later in Berlin. The road over
which the victim was taken into the Soviet Zone
is shown (below left), but the barrier had been
lifted for the abductor’s car. The map (center)
shows by the dotted line the course of the abduc-
tors from Gericht Street at the top into the zone.
Bent spikes (right) were scattered from the fleeing

car to hinder pursuit. (BE HICOG photos)

--- Page 37 ---
Six-month-old Peter looks up from his crib, newly painted by American
soldiers who unofficially “adopted” the Waiblingen orphanage near Stuttgart.
For an account of their helping hand, as reported by a German newspaper,
see page 15. (Seventh Army PIO photo)