--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
ae F as

school. Members of safety patrol (right) raise flag on schoolgrounds.

~

Chauncey G. Parker (left) officially opens American

1 Page .
Mayor Peter Busen, Bad Godesberg, Gives Picture
Of Beethoven's House to Principal Ruby Anderson. ~

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the United States mis-
sion in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Bditon’ -aasecesencrners H. Warner Waid

Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer

Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Wilfried Saliger Liselotte Goldbeck
°

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 040-042
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8428, 8691, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Information Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Distribution is handled by the Distri-
bution Unit, Administration Services
Division, Office of Executive Director,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 961, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:

Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division, HICOG
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

April 1952

Our Foreign Policy, 1952— Germany .................... 2

Library: on, Wheelsi3) sia Gatien sch nies Conan tee 3
Article by Liselotte Goldbeck

Germany's Federal Government.....................00055 yi
Article by Robert P. Ball

Democratization Progressing, McCloy Tells Editors ....., 14

Preas‘of Two Natlonsiahe, oriat. tad ena niesee eee 15
Resume by Adalbert Schmidt

One-Year Review: Germany's Foreign Relations ........., 17
Address by Dr. Konrad Adenauer

The Struggle for German Unity ......................0.55 19)
Article by Henry B. Cox

Last-DP’ Family Salles... ce atctverersen aye steals 25

Humor;from:Soviet:Zone 0. Siiec acct ce ta eR 27

Personnel I Notesev.iisc s5,0er les ses is ote ae hee ne ae 29

Buture Law y Crs ierecroncnis:< iets eee aa Mau tir Gee eR ae ol
Article by Richard J. Jackson

German Economy Retains Position ...................... 32
Economic review by Commercial Attache Section

Iniand Around (Germany. ./ansii5<he toon 4d le 35

Calendar: of Coming=Events sti Urs sana uee cee te 41

German Editorials and Cartoons ........................ 43

Official Notices 47
Communiques ...... 47
Laws and Regulations 47
Statements......:.... AS bees aires at SOMA ferepd anata 47
Announcements ..... 48

Recent Publications 48

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
EUTTITTULLLLULIUILEELLLCELLLELLLLLLLLCLLCLLCCLLLLCLLCCCLCCCLCE-LLDLEL POLL LCCC EE LCCC PCLCCCL CCE LOLOOo

The US Department of State issued in March an 80-page brochure entitled “Our Foreign
Policy 1952," describing the background, policy and aim of the United States Government in
the important fields of current international relations. The section concerning Germany is
reprinted here.

Our Foreign Policy 1952

— Germany —

ERMANY IS A COUNTRY of some 70,000,000 people — intelligent, diligent, dynamic. It has great

industrial capacity. It lies in the middle of Europe. Germany is bound to be a vitally important
factor in any European equation. It has been, and could be again, a minus factor; it can be a
decisive plus.

In May 1945, the Occupying Powers began to disarm Germany. The agreed policy was to deprive
Germany of the capacity for again waging aggressive war. We undertook to eliminate the gangster
elements that had been in control for 12 years and to assist decent Germans to put their country
together again.

Along with that short-term job the Western Powers started a more difficult long-term one. That
was the job of helping the Western Germans to rebuild their own society on a more democratic
pattern. Nazism had penetrated the whole structure of German life — business and industry, the
educational system, community organization, and of course the press and radio.

For much of the last seven years a great part of our effort in Germany has been devoted to
developing democratic skills. As part of our contribution we have invited several thousand Germans,
present or potential leaders, to travel and study in the United States and observe American life and
American methods.

Western Germany has made good progress in the few years since the war. The German Federal
Republic has a stable democratic government, and it has made a remarkable economic recovery.

HE US GOVERNMENT TERMINATED the state of war with Germany on Oct. 19, 1951. This step
had been agreed to by the three Western Occupation Powers. Our joint example has so far been
followed by more than 30 other governments.

Some people have asked why, only seven years after the Western Powers set about disarming
Germany, they are willing to permit Western Germans to put on uniforms again. Such was not the
original intent of the US Government and its wartime allies. But with the refusal of the Soviets to
permit German unification and with the development of strong military units in East Germany under
Communist control, the defense of Western Germany became a practical necessity. Events have
shown that Western Germany cannot remain a military vacuum in the world of the 1950's.

The idea of a permanently neutralized Germany, its security guaranteed by the other major
powers, has a tempting appearance. A number of people in the West have been attracted’ by it. So
have a good many high officials in East Germany and Moscow. The trouble from the Western view-
point is that there can be no enduring neutrality in a location next door to the Red Army. It would
work only in a world where all great powers could be counted on to keep their promises — and in
such a world it would be unnecessary for anybody to rearm.

T= WESTERN COMMUNITY NEEDS Germany as a full partner, sharing in the privileges and
responsibilities of the free nations, Germany's neighbors do not want a German national army.
Most Germans do not want it. But if German units can be incorporated into a European defense force
under international command, German strength will contribute greatly to the North Atlantic com-
munity’s bulwark against aggression.
The objective of the Western Allies is to establish Germany as a productive, cooperating member
of the family of nations, not a malcontent and troublemaker. We want to enlist the great German
potential for good on the side of the free nations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2

STUMUANNLUUENNUUEQUCUUEUOUUUOOUANOUUUAUUTUNOOUOUOOUUUEOQUEECOQUOEOOQOUCAQOOUUOOUCUOOOOUUOUUEUOGUOMOOOEQOUUOOOQUUEOOQUOUOOEHOUOOGOOONOUOUOEOUOOOOOUOOOOUOEROGUOEEOUEOOOUEEOQO OOD EEUU UUUD NEON TAA TT

APRIL 1952-

--- Page 6 ---
By LISELOTTE GOLDBECK

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

A CASUAL OBSERVER passing the elementary school
of Neulussheim, a little town of 3,600 population in
Mannheim county, late on a certain Thursday afternoon
is apt to wonder why the school yard is still crowded
with children long after classes are over.

Both boys and girls linger there in groups, and all of
them are carrying books — two or three or four.

What is this? Has the younger German generation
developed a thirst for knowledge so great that after-
school fun is forgotten?

The answer is provided with the appearance down the
street of a large blue-painted truck which slows as it
approaches the school, turns and rolls into the yard. The
children, galvanized into action, rush to meet it, waving
their books in greeting. This is one of the Thursdays
marking the biweekly visit to Neulussheim of the Mann-
heim US Information Center's bookmobile. They are
library, not textbooks, which the students carry.

The center's free library service to rural communities
is extended to eight small towns and villages — within a
radius of 30 miles from Mannheim — where either Ger-
man library facilities are rare or residents are unable to
pay for them, The Mannheim bookmobile is the first of
20 libraries on wheels planned for West Germany's rural
readers to be put into operation.

LTHOUGH IT DRAWS from 5,000 volumes on its

storage shelves in Mannheim, the bookmobile has
toom for only 4,000. With few exceptions, the books are
German translations of English language publications.
Two, three and sometimes 10 copies of a single title are
available. The rolling library is operated on the same
open-shelf system as the libraries in the city-located US
Information Centers.

The eight communities among which the bookmobile

Ladenburg town crier and posters announce bookmobile.

Bookmobile library card is given to a new reader by Naomi
Huber, director of Mannheim's US Information Center.

circulates have a total population of 36,000. Recent
statistics for a single month show a circulation in the
entire area of 3,490 books and 633 magazines,

Designed primarily to meet rural standards, readers
are nevertheless offered a wide range of selection, in-
cluding, besides fiction and non-fiction, material in the
information and entertainment fields and many American
magazines, Picture displays showing various phases of
life in the United States are concealed in the book-
mobile's sidewalls, and these are uncovered at each stop.

Miss Barbara Fuerer, librarian in charge of the book-
mobile, says that reader interest is a good indication of
the social and educational standards of the communities.
The number of the bookmobile’s patrons has grown
markedly, she said, since the library began its circuit
the first of the year. Even Kurt Streckenbach, driver of

Cover Photograph
The first bookmobile operated by the US Information
Centers program in Germany is shown during a visit
to Ketch, a town of 4,800 population near Mannheim,
in Wuerttemberg-Baden. All photos by Jacoby, ID HICOG

First US bookmobile draws up in Ladenburg's market place.

--- Page 7 ---
dill
Barbara Fuerer and Kurt Streckenbach select titles for trip.

the bookmobile, has been pressed into service as a
librarian to accommodate all comers,

N NEULUSSHEIM, THE rolling library has approxi-

mately 350 patrons, two thirds of whom are elementary
school children from the fifth to the eighth grades. Half
of these are girls, While the boys are mostly interested
in books of adventure or the ever-popular stories about
American Indians, the girls prefer fairy tales or the
series-type of book written especially for the young.
Mark Twain's “Huckleberry Finn,’ Robert Louis Steven-
son's ‘Treasure Island” and ‘Buffalo Bill" are among the
most eagerly sought after volumes. Some children borrow
three and four books, not only for themselves but for
other members of their families.

On the bookmobile’s third visit to Neulussheim, 13-year-
old Ruth Isberger took out for her own use ‘Memories
of Youth” by the Swedish author and poet Selma Lager-
loef; for her brother, Armstrong Sperry's story of an
Indian boy, “Mafatu," and for her mother, Hemingway's
“A Farewell to Arms®." To Ruth's family, free library
service is a boon: Ruth's father did not return from the
war and her mother supports the family from a small
public welfare pension and by taking in sewing.

%* ‘In einem andern Land,"’ which is the German title, translated
directly is ‘‘In Another Country.’

Ketch pupils return books borrowed lIast visit — want more.

Barbara Fuerer, librarian, discusses choice with a reader.

To families such as this, and indeed, to many book-
loving Germans in better position financially than the Is-
bergers, books are luxury items because prices are so high.

| ARL SENN, PRINCIPAL of the Neulussheim school,
reports that the influence of the good reading pro-
vided to students by the bookmobile is already reflected
in their schoolwork in the comparatively short time the
rolling library has served the community. The children
are adding to their vocabularies, they show better choice
in the structure of sentences, and there is a marked im-
provement in their knowledge of geography, he says.

They have also become interested in the national
characteristics and ways of life of the people of the
United States and other countries, and this, Mr. Senn
declares, is a valuable aid to their general education.
Famous volumes of world literature available on the
bookmobile shelves will further enlarge their scope of
understanding of nations other than their own.

Of immediate benefit, teachers say, is the fact that
children exposed to good books from the start are less
tempted to read the cheap, lurid publications which might
well lead them into juvenile delinquency,

N THE BOOKMOBILE'S second visit to Edingen, a vil-
lage of 1,800 residents, readers borrowed 112 novels,
44 books for young people, 21 biographies, 19 books on cur-

Youngsters crowd inside hoping to find favorite authors.

--- Page 8 ---
Patronselects carefully books fromEnglishand German ones.

rent and past history, 14 on social and educational science,
nine travelogues, nine natural science and medical
volumes, seven books on literature, seven on art, four
on philosophy and three on religion, Some high school
and commercial school students selected English-language
publications to improve their knowledge of English.

Edingen’s approximately 250 patrons are all older than
14 years, and they represent all social classes. Adult
readers take more time to browse, studying carefully titles
and frontispieces, and often asking the librarian for advice
as to what they should choose.

Ladenburg, too, has many older patrons. In that com-
munity, arrival of the bookmobile is announced by the
town crier, and within a matter of minutes, the rolling
library parked in Ladenburg’s ancient marketplace, is
surrounded by book-loving residents.

Before a new community is added to the bookmobile's
itinerary, town officials are contacted by Miss Naomi
Huber, director of the Mannheim US Information Center,
and Librarian Fuerer to ascertain whether or not its
services are desired. In general, community officials wel-
come the idea principally because the bookmobile widens
the usually narrow choice of books in the town and thus
cuts down the selection of Schund (trash) by its younger
residents.

American Indian books are popular with German boys.

Amid confusion young and old return and borrow books.

Sometimes, however, the bookmobile could provide
competition which might work a hardship, such as in the
community where there is a circulating library owned
and operated by a widow who derives her only source
of income from it. Because the widow would be sure to
suffer financially from such competition, the community
was ruled out of the bookmobile’s itinerary,

PERATION OF THE library on wheels is distinctly a

rush affair now as the crowd of readers is increasing
with each swing of the circuit, and the two-member staff
is hard pressed in meeting schedules set for each com-
munity.

Mornings are devoted.to making selections for the
day's trip, loading and unloading cases of books and
making out the report and statistical survey on those
lent the day before. The trip starts early in the after-
noon and ends late in the evening.

Even though readers are often impatient and the
children, especially, often undisciplined, Miss Fuerer and
Mr. Streckenbach find their long hours of work reward-
ing. ‘We welcome new bookmobile fans,’ the librarian
said, ‘because we know that with each new one we are
helping to widen the perspective of the reading public
we serve and are thus contributing more and more to
Germany's growing democracy." . -++END

--- Page 9 ---
The German Federal Republic's new
parliament building in Bonn (above).
President Theodor Heuss lives at Villa
Hammerschmidt (right). Chancellor
Konrad Adenauer's official home is

Palais Schaumburg (right, bottom).
The Federal ministries, scattered
all over the congested capital city,
are listed on signboard (below).

“5

--- Page 10 ---
Germany’s Federal Government

By ROBERT P. BALL
Press Officer, Bonn-Petersberg
Information Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

RESUMABLY MOST AMERICANS know more about

the German Federal Rupublic than did that legendary
visitor who is reported to have asked a HICOG briefing,
“Who authorized the Germans to have a government,
anyway?"

One has only to listen in on a few discussions of Ger-
man politics, however, to find that a good many motes of
ignorance still cloud the eyes of some of the simon-purest
democrats when they try to focus them on the German
political scene. Some of the more violent critics occa-
sionally claim that the new German democracy is noth-
ing more than authoritarianism in overalls; and even per-
sons purporting to be friends of the new Republic some-
times show a shoulder-shrugging acceptance.

Such democrats as these critics would be wounded if
told that they do the cause of parliamentary government
a disservice. Yet at a time when too many Germans still
confuse unfortunate by-products of German political life
with the democratic system itself, there is obvious danger
in this ambivalent attitude of treating German democracy
simultaneously as a desirable goal and a species of
contradiction in terms,

“The key to success (in building democracy in Ger-
many),"" says an official publication of the Office of the
US High Commissioner, “is to arouse public interest in
the political and governmental system and its problems,
to make the public conscious of those factors which
operate against its interests, and to find means by which
informed public opinion may be used effectively to ac-
complish the necessary reforms.”

In other words, what is needed are not scattershot
blasts, but precise sharpshooting. And to do this, one
must know how the government of the Federal Republic
works, Comparison with similar US Government opera-
tions may help.

Bundestag

N THE UNITED STATES, legislative powers are balanced

between the Senate and the House of Representatives.
Either may initiate legislation, but no bill can become
law without the approval of both. In the German Feder-
ation the powers are also divided between two houses,
but with a striking difference. The Bundestag (Federal
Assembly, or parliament) is something more than our
House of Representatives, something less than House and
Senate together, Only bills which affect the constitutional
“states’ rights’ can be killed by disapproval of the Bun-
desrat (Federal Council, or upper house).

This parliament is the only popularly elected com-
ponent of the German Federal Government, and, as such,

APRIL 1952

is expected to reflect the will of the German people.
The 402 members of this primary lawthaking body are
elected for a term of four years by all Germans over
21 years old. Berlin, which is not a part of the Federal
Republic, sends 19 observers to the Bundestag.*

The Bundestag is broken up into 38 functional com-
mittees in whose chambers much of the legislative spade
work is done, The largest committees (budget, food and
agriculture) have 27 members; the smallest (patent law,
organization, and building law), seven members. The various
parties, of which there are 10 in the present Bundestag,
hold committee posts in proportion to their voting strength,
A “Council of Elders’ serves as steering committee; the
equivalent of our speaker is the ‘president of the Bundes-
tag,” usually chosen from the largest party.

%* Berlin, while it is a bastion of the free world, is not an integral
part of the Federal Republic. The special location of Berlin and inter-
national agreements affecting its administration have made it neces-
sary to keep Berlin formally outside the Federation. In practice,
however, the Berlin legislature takes over much Federal legislation
in its own name, and maximum uniformity of legislation is maintained,

Chancellor Adenauer opens debate on contribution to Euro-
pean defense in the Bundestag. All photos by Jacoby, ID HICOG

--- Page 11 ---
A newcomer can find his way about Bonn, situated on
Rhine, by push-button, illuminated city map in Bundeshaus.

For regulating its sessions, preparing agendas and
controlling debate, the Bundestag took over with few
changes the rules of Procedure of the Weimar Reichs-
tag, which are generally considered satisfactory. Recently,
however, the Bundestag adopted an important change in
the rules to make 15 instead of 10 the minimum number
for a recognized party caucus or “fraction.”

Since parties having fewer than 15 representatives are
thus deprived of the rights to propose separate legis-
lation, to hold voting committee seats and even to intro-
duce separate motions, the effect of this change has
been to deprive all but the four largest parties of some

At Palais Schaumburg, Chancellor Adenauer (facing
group), who is also foreign minister, poses with ministers.

very basic parliamentary rights. Two of the smaller
parties have succeeded in evading the restrictions by
joining together as a new fraction.

OTING IN THE BUNDESTAG is by three different

methods — show of hands, roll call and teller vote
(the so-called “Hammelsprung’’ — counting of sheep). By
far the most frequent method of voting is by show of
hands. If the chair is unable to determine the outcome
of a show of hands, he will order a Hammelsprung, for
which the deputies leave the chamber and re-enter
through three doors marked separately “Aye,” “No” or
“Abstain.'* Tellers are posted at each door to count the
deputies as they re-enter the chamber. At the request of
at least 50 members, a roll-call vote must take place.

The work week of the Bundestag extends from Mon-
day through Friday, with plenary sessions on Wednes-
day and Thursday, and committee meetings and party
caucuses on other days, Although nearly three-fourths
of the members now have some sort of private quarters
in Bonn, most of them make use of their free-ride priv-
ilege to tpavel by train to their home districts to see
their families and to repair political fences over the
week end. Like most parliaments, the Bundestag takes a
recess from mid-July to the first week in September,
with shorter recesses at Christmas and Easter,

Is the Bundestag expensive? Probably the answer
depends on one’s point of view. American taxpayers
wouldn't think so, The parliament building is a tasteful
and unluxurious made-over teachers’ college, For each
year of law-making, a member of the Bundestag receives
a basic salary of only DM 7,200 (equivalent to $1,513.60).
Beyond this, he receives DM 30 ($7.14) to cover food and
lodging for each workday in Bonn, plus two special
annual allowances: DM 1,200 ($285.60) to cover campaign
expenditures and DM 2,400 ($571.20) for auto transporta-
tion, since only one member in five owns his own car.

Americans may raise an eyebrow at these last two
allowances, which help the members to campaign for
re-election, but they could hardly frown at the over-all
average income of about DM 1,000 ($238) per month,
Figured at this rate, the care and feeding of the Bundes-
tag costs the German public a bit more than DM 7,000,000
($1,666,000) each year, which is about one-fourth of the
annual cost of maintaining the Border Police, or the equiva-
lent of constructing three miles of new superhighway.

S THE BUNDESTAG too old? The target of this oft-

heard question is, of course, not the two and one-half
year old institution itself, but the elected members.
Probably the answer to it, too, depends on one’s point
of view. It is true that only 30 members are between the
ages of 30 and 40. On the other hand, the average age
of the Bundestag, 47, is less than the average for many
other parliaments, including the old Weimar Reichstag.

Considering the Bundestag's extremely important law-
making powers, it is surprising that so few laws originate
from the floor of the house. Although individual legis-
lators are equally entitled to introduce legislation, nearly

APRIL 1952

--- Page 12 ---
all laws are prepared by the Federal Ministries and
introduced by the Government,

Of the nearly 500 draft laws introduced since the first
session, more than 60 percent were introduced by the
chancellor and his ministers. In part this legislative
inertia on the part of the House is a reflection of the
European custom of letting the government in power
propose the legislative program, but more basically it is
probably a measure of the lack of expert assistance,
without which individual legislators and party groups
cannot prepare complex legislation. ‘

The activity of the individual legislators and party
groups is, therefore, centered on motions, demanding
that the government take a specific action, and on
questions, asking the government to explain the status
of a particular problem, More than 1,000 such motions
and questions have been introduced.

Legislative Process

HE NORMAL PROGRESS of a legislative bill is as
follows: The bill is introduced by the Federal Gov-
ernment, which sends it first to the Bundesrat (Federal
Council). Within three weeks, the Bundesrat returns it
to the Federal Government with its recommendations
The Government sends it to the Bundestag, where the
bill is considered in three "readings." After the third
reading in the Bundestag, the bill is sent to the Bundesrat.
The Bundesrat, if it objects to the law, may take it to
the Joint Conference Committee, which tries to find a
compromise acceptable to both Bundestag and Bundesrat.
Or, if the bill does not affect the constitutional rights of
the states, the Bundestag may override the objection.
If this has been done, or if the Bundesrat has not
objected, the bill goes to the Federal Government again,
which sends it to the president for signature. The bill is
then countersigned and promulgated by the Government.
During the “first reading’ in the Bundestag, only the
fundamental aspects of the bill may be discussed and no
amendments may be made. After the “first reading’ the
bill may be referred to a functional committee. As soon
as this committee has completed its study, it designates
one of its members to report the bill out to the full meet-
ing of the Bundestag along with its recommendations,

In the “second reading," the house listens to the com-
mittee report. It will then debate the matter again, mak-
ing any changes or amendments by motions from the
floor, In the “second reading,” each provision of the bill is
separately debated and voted upon. The bill may again
be referred to committee for further study.

The final or “third reading” of a bill normally follows
at least 48 hours later in order to allow for a further
review of the measure, especially when the “second
reading" has produced amendments. By unanimous con-
sent, more and more frequently resorted to, the ‘third
reading" may be advanced to take place immediately
after the “'second reading."

EGISLATURES HAVE TWO main functions — to make
~ laws and to watch over their execution. Both are

necessary to parliamentary health.

APRIL 1952

Busy lawmakers at Bonn can keep up with schedule of
week's activities by watching board in Bundeshaus.

To a certain extent, the Bundestag’s sin of omission in
letting the Ministries draft most of the laws is visited
upon its task of watching over the enforcement of laws
by the Ministries and the civil service. Here, too, the
Bundestag lacks the expert advice needed to enable it
to evaluate implementing ordinances and enforcement
procedures and to call executive agencies to account. In
two and one-half years only seven Bundestag investigating
committees have been set up. Three are now at work.*

* One is investigating charges that notorious former Nazis are
employed in the Foreign Office; the second, public building expendi-
tures in Bonn; the third, charges that civil servants were bribed
by a journalist.

Deputies of Federal Assembly can meet between sessions
in spacious lobby of Bundeshaus to discuss day's business.

--- Page 13 ---
More parliamentary follow-up and investigative action
would seem necessary, to assert the constitutional
supremacy of the parliament because the German civil
service is neither accustomed nor devoted to scrutiny of
its actions by elected bodies. Moreover, it is natural that
laws drafted by enforcing agencies tend to be broad and
general in wording. A ministry feels no desire to include
in a law provisions which might hamper its freedom of
action. The motivation of the drafters may not inevitably
be undemocratic: they may feel that they are preserving
necessary flexibility. In effect, however, the practice
leads from rule by law to rule by decree.

This tendency is the more ominous in view of the
Ministries’ apparent anxiety to regulate nearly every
human activity by law. For example, the recently pro-
posed draft press law, while purporting to guarantee
freedom of the press, would give the government wide
powers to take action against newspapers considered by
the government or the courts to be printing false, mis-
leading or subversive material. Another rather spectacular
example of such latitude was a draft law introduced by
the minister of justice, which, among other provisions for
the protection of the democratic order, provided that:

“Whoever defames or with malicious intent holds up
to ridicule a legislative or judicial body of the Federa-
tion or the states or the Government of the Federation
or a State, will be punished with imprisonment not
under three months."

In explaining the law, the Ministry stated that the
concept of ridicule should not be interpreted too nar-
rowly, It could include any expression of condemnation
or indifference.

The debate on this law in the Bundestag included the
following expressions:

Dr. Dehler (Minister of Justice): “Doctor Arndt, you
use diction that makes our work here an ordeal.”

Dr. Arndt (SPD) (later): “Every time Minister Dehier
speaks, it is a national catastrophe.”

Sharp language is common to all parliaments, and
the Bundestag is certainly not rowdier than others.
It might be cause for wonder, however, that a Ministry
would propose a law which could have the effect of
forbidding to the public the right of sharp criticism so
stoutly exercised in the debate on that very law in
parliament.

INGS AND PARLIAMENTS have always known that
the power to control expenditure is the power to rule.
* The abolition of the private purse meant the end of des-

potism, Under the budget system, modern parliaments

control the actions of the government by allotting funds
for specific purposes.

However, the manner in which the German federal
budget has been voted in the Bundestag militates against
effective control. There is a great difference between
the power to grant expenditures and the power to ap-
prove them after they have been made. The latter is
actually the way the budget has been handled in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

Bundestag members take advantage of pause in session to
study current documents together or merely to relax,

Federal Republic, Instead of submitting a detailed budget
for the coming fiscal year, which is then debated, altered
and finally approved by the legislature, the finance
minister has so far submitted at the start of the fiscal
year estimates of revenue and expenditure in general
terms, based principally on the experience of the pre-
vious year.

If it becomes clear that more money has been spent
than was appropriated, supplementary budgets are intro-
duced, The finance minister has wide latitude in using
the funds, limited only by the requirement that he must
have the approval of the budget committee and must
later justify the expenditures to the full Bundestag.

So it happens that the budget for the fiscal year 1950,
ending March 31, 1951, was only approved in the sum-
mer of 1951. The budget of about DM 20,000,000,000
($4,760,000,000) for fiscal 1951 has not yet been debated.
Just what would happen in case of disapproval is not clear.

Bundesrat

HE FACT THAT the Federal Government is federal °

means that it governs the Republic in conjunction
with the nine* state governments. Under the Basic Law,
all powers not specifically assigned to the Federation
are reserved to the states. The most important such
“states' rights" are police and education. Fields in which
Federation and states exercise concurrent powers include
a wide range of important functions from highway con-
struction to taxes.
The Federation has the turnover tax, the excise taxes
and custom duties; the states have the income and corpo-

%* At the time of the approval of the Basic Law there were
11 states. However, this year three of the original ‘‘Laender,’’
Wuerttemberg-Baden, Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern and Baden decided
by popular referendum to join together into one, the Southwest State.
The government is now being formed. See ‘The Southwest State”
in Information Bulletin, February 1952.

APRIL 1952

--- Page 14 ---
ration taxes and property taxes, among others» The
Federation can, by a law requiring Bundesrat approval,
force the states to share their revenue with the Federa-
tion. By the same means it can force the wealthier states,
like industrial North-Rhine Westphalia and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, to share their revenues with their poor reta-
tions, like agricultural, refugee-swollen Schleswig-Holstein.

The Bundesrat should not be confused with our Senate,
which was designed to protect the interests of small
states against large ones. The Bundesrat is designed to
maintain the rights of all the states against the Federa-
tion, to patrol the state side of the devious boundary
line between federal and state authority and to repel
federal raiding parties. The 43 members (plus four Berlin
observers) are not popularly elected but are members of
the state governments, selected by the state legislatures
and paid by the states to keep an eye on things in Bonn.
Each state is represented by at least three members,
with larger states having four, and the largest, five. The
votes of each state in the Bundesrat must be cast as a bloc.

Each year the Bundesrat elects a new president who
convenes the Bundesrat when enough work has accumu-
lated to make it worthwhile for the members to leave
their desks in the state capitals for Bonn. Ordinarily, the
Bundesrat convenes once every two weeks. Members receive
DM 30 ($7.14) per diem for each business day in Bonn.

Of the laws requiring Bundesrat approval, the most
important are tax laws or laws dividing up tax revenue,
and it is on these laws that the Bundesrat makes its
influence felt most strongly. The Bundesrat may also
protest against laws which do not require its approval,
but the Bundestag can override this protest.

Since the question of whether a law requires Bundes-
rat approval depends on interpretation of the Basic Law,
there is room for argument. This apple of discord has
already caused some harsh words, for the states naturally
wish the widest interpretation of state authority, while

Visitors’ dining room in Bundeshaus serves reasonable and
tasty meals — the deputies’ dining room is behind curtains.

the Bundestag wishes to minimize it. The final appeal, if
the Bundesrat feels that too many federal ministers are
creeping into state affairs, is to the Federal Constitutional
Court.

Chancellor and Ministers

HE CHANCELLOR AND his cabinet are usually called

simply “the Federal Government," and there is signi-
ficance in the semantics. Of the laws passed by the legis-
lature last year, more than three-fourths were prepared
and introduced by the cabinet, and only four government-
sponsored bills were turned down.

Defenders of this impressive record of governmental
success in imposing its will on the legislature contend
that large responsibility requires correspondingly large
authority, and there is no doubt that, in the popular
mind as well as in fact, the “government” has the sole
responsibility for governing. If the taxes are high, if coal
is scarce, if the price of bread is going up, the chancellor
and his cabinet are to blame.

The chancellor, heading the executive branch and com-
manding a majority in the legislature, is the key figure
in German politics. Elected by an absolute majority of
the Bundestag, he governs until the Bundestag expresses
lack of confidence in him by electing a successor, Thus
his position is more secure than that of the-prime minister
in most other European countries, where a simple vote of
lack of confidence or a defeat on a major piece of legis-
lation can topple the government.

Opposition parties to the left and right may have a
common wish to oust the present federal chancellor, but
there is littlle likelihood that they would agree on the
choice of his successor. If the situation should arise
where the Bundestag refuses to support the present
chancellor but cannot agree on a successor, the Bundes-
tag may be dissolved and new elections held.

The chancellor is paid DM 45,000 ($10,710) annual
salary, plus DM 24,000 ($5,712) for official expenses, and
he has an official residence at his disposal. The ministers,
who are selected by the chancellor and confirmed by the
Bundestag, have no dwellings furnished to them, but
receive DM 3,600 ($856.80) rental allowance instead.
Their normal salary is DM 36,000 ($8,568) annually, with
DM 7,200 ($1,713.60) for expenses.

The ministerial portfolios are: Interior, Finance, Justice,
Economics, Food and Agriculture, Labor, Transportation,
Postal Affairs, European Recovery Program, Refugee
Affairs, Housing, All-German Affairs, Bundesrat Affairs,
and Foreign Affairs.* At present most of the ministries
are located in old German army barracks or private
mansions in or near Bonn.

The “Beamte”

O DESCRIPTION OF the executive branch could
ignore these important persons. The translation of
Beamte is “civil servants" or “‘public servants,” although
some skeptics claim that they are seldom civil and never

* See ‘‘Who's Who in the Federal Cabinet’’ in Information Bul-
letin, June 1951. /

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
\

Housing project for Federal workers, finished in October
last year, has 520 units. Cost was DM 8,000,000 ($1,904,000).

serve the public, An official American publication says
of them:

“As the result of historical tradition and political
philosophy, there is a widely accepted view that the
state is an independent entity superior to the citizen,
with the right to direct and control his individual
activities; that the official, as the representative of
the state, is therefore the superior of the citizen; that
the citizen has no rights except those specifically
granted by constitution or law; and that even these
are somewhat in the nature of privileges. Such rights
are too often evaded with comparative ease because
of the authoritarian character of public administration.
Special laws exist to protect the privileged status of
the official in relation to the public or the citizen.
Machinery for assertion of the citizen's rights is
cumbersome and frequently fails to afford protection.
In general, officials recognize no obligation to inform
the public on policy or action.”

The distinguishing mark of the Beamte is his dura-
bility: he cannot be discharged except under the most
extraordinary circumstances. About 6,000 Beamte work
in the federal ministries in Bonn; these must be chosen
from all the states in proportion to population.

Obviously, these federal officials represent a very
modest share of the nearly 2,000,000 public employees in
the Federal Republic. Of this impressive figure — one
public servant for every 25 men, women and children,
or about the same proportion as lieutenants to enlisted
men in an army — it must be said that a large share are
postal and transportation employees.

Federal President

HILE THE CHANCELLOR is really the chief execu-

tive in Germany, the federal president has the duties
of the head of state — of lending the support of his pres-
ence to céremonies and of his prestige of worthy causes,
of presenting awards to outstanding citizens, of making
speeches on appropriate occasions—in short, of rep-
resenting the Federal Republic in his person.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

The president is not popularly elected. He is elected
once every five years by a body consisting of the
Bundestag plus an equal number of delegates chosen by
the state legislatures according to the principles of pro-
portional representation, A president may not serve more
than two terms.

The president appoints and dismisses federal judges
and federal public servants, exercises the power of
pardon and carries out certain formal functions in con-
nection with the selection of a government and the dis-
solution of the Bundestag. Laws require his signature,
but he has no veto power, nor is he permitted any form
of party activity. Thus removed from the clangy arena
of interparty strife, the president is free to perform the
necessary task of giving the German people a non-
partisan rallying point and of encouraging their citizenry,
as opposed to merely national pride.

Among the more interesting special rights of the
president are those of establishing orders of merit and
of choosing the national anthem. Although both of these
prerogatives have been tested neither has produced a
rousing success. The Bundesverdienstkreuz has been
received skeptically by the public, which seems to doubt :
that a new decoration is what Germany needs at present;
and the president's tentative choice for the new national
anthem, “Brueder, reicht die Hand zum Bunde," has run
up against stiff opposition from those Germans who feel
that ‘Deutschland, Deutschland, ueber alles" was good
enough for pappy and is good enough for them.

For facing such disillusionments, the federal president
is paid DM 50,000 ($11,900) a year, plus DM 100,000
($23,800) for expenses, and he has an official residence
at his disposal. The salary is less than the Reichspresident
received in Weimar days.

Constitutional Court

HE FEDERAL CONSTITUTIONAL Court is important.

For the first time in German history, and as an extra-
ordinary exception in Europe as a whole, a judicial body
has been created that is capable of outlawing both legis-
lation enacted by the parliament and actions of the gov-
ernment if such laws and actions violate the Basic Law.
Accustomed to our own Supreme Court and to the
principle of judicial review of laws, we tend to forget
that this bulwark against arbitrary governmental practices
exists in few-other lands. It remains to be seen how
this Court will exercise its responsibilities, whether, for
example, it will take a “strict’’ or ‘loose’ interpretation
of the elastic clauses of the Basic Law.

Like the US Supreme Court, this Court also has the
power to decide whether political parties and organi-
zations are constitutional. Two such cases, affecting the ~
legality of the Communist Party of Germany and of the
neo-Nazi Socialist Reichs Party, will soon be considered.
by the Court. Already the Court has gained in stature
by its annulment of the so-called Blitz Law, by which —
the Bundestag arbitrarily extended the terms of ce tain
state legislatures until the referendum on the Southwest ~
State could be carried through.

APRIL 1952 —

--- Page 16 ---
Twelve of the 24 judges of the Court are selected by
the Bundesrat and 12 by the Bundestag. The Bundesrat
selects its judges directly. The Bundestag forms a se-
lection committee which chooses the names of eligible
candidates from lists kept by the Federal Ministry of
Justice. Eight of the 24 judges have life tenure, the rest
are elected for terms of eight years.

The Electorate

F ONE COULD IMAGINE democracies measured along

a yardstick on which the units were the number of
matters decided by vote of the whole electorate, both
the Federal Republic and the United States would fall
somewhere below the top of the scale.

In the United States, each voter can express his pref-
erence for president, vice-president, two senators and a
representative. He does not choose Supreme Court
Justices nor members of the cabinet, nor is there, as in
Switzerland, provision for national referendums.

The German voter has considerably less to worry
about, He chooses only his representative in the Bundes-
tag. President and chancellor are chosen by the parlia-
ment; the cabinet ministers are picked by the chancellor
and the members of the Bundesrat by the state legis-
latures, There is no provision for national referendum,
The German voter normally casts a national ballot only
once in four years, or only half as often as his American
counterpart,

In terms of the franchise, there is nothing to choose
between the United States and the Federal Republic:
both grant the vote to all citizens who have reached the
age of 21 years. There is nothing in either country like
the British restrictions which deny the vote to peers,
bishops, lunatics and habitual criminals, or the Swiss
restrictions denying the vote to women. In terms of
participation, however, the Federal Republic has the
better score: it is common for 70-80 percent of the Ger-
man electorate to vote in national elections, while
40-50 percent is the usual percentage of American voters
who use their franchise.

The electoral law under which the present Bundestag
was elected divides the Federal Republic into enough
voting districts to elect 60 percent of the members. The
remaining 40 percent of the seats are filled according to
the principle of proportional representation, which means
that these 161 seats are divided among the parties accord-
ing to their share of the popular vote.

These seats, won by the party and not by individuals,
are filled by persons chosen by the party leadership and
confirmed by the party convention. (There is no such
thing as’ a nomination primary in Germany.) It may
happen that a party official who lost the election in his
own district is rescued by being given one of the seats
won by the party.

ASWE FROM ITS TENDENCY to encourage a multi-
“ plicity of parties, including extremist, antidemocratic
ones, the system of 40 percent proportional represen-
tation has certain ill effects on both electorate and
representatives. Violent critics of the system are inclined

APRIL 1952

13

Border patrol detail has taken over the guard at Palais
Schaumburg. Guards direct traffic and also check visitors.

to say that proportional representation completely destroys
the link between voter and representative by forcing the
voter to think—and vote—solely in terms of party.

Certainly it does dim the importance of the candidate
as individual and emphasize him as member of a pa.ty.
In this sense it may instill an unhealthy feeling in the
voter that the party is the only channel and that one
must therefore depend on the party leadership. Since,
for the candidate, being in line for a party-won seat is an
insurance policy against election defeat, the assignment
of these seats becomes an instrument of party discipline,

A study of the Bundestag reveals the effect of this
discipline. It has been demonstrated repeatedly that on
important issues the Bundestag votes along strict party
lines, These lines have been broken only in the rarest of
instances. Under such circumstances, it is generally
acknowledged that speeches are not made to convince
or persuade a political opponent to change his opinion
but are simply made for the record or for the public.

For the same reason it is relatively easy to forecast
the vote on a measure, since party discipline can be
counted upon to smother all dissent. This is true even
when the so-called ‘caucus rule” or straight party voting
is not invoked.

Of course, in the United States there are also strong
pressures on congressmen to vote the party line, but
except in machine politics, there are always mavericks
who refuse to be lassoed by it. In Germany, if the pious
wish of the Basic Law is to be realized—that mem-
bers are “representatives of the whole people, not bound
by orders and instructions, and subject only to their
conscience" —some slackening off on the party line
will be necessary. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Democratization

Progressing,

McCloy Tells Editors

ORE GERMANS TODAY are adhering to demo-
cratic concepts than ever before in the history of
their country, US High Commissioner John J. McCloy
told a group of 41 visiting US radio and newspaper
executives at HICOG Headquarters in Mehlem recently.
The group, including newspaper and radio editors
representing small dailies and local stations throughout
America made a two-day stopover in early March in the
Bonn area as part of their month-long tour of 10 Euro-
pean and Middle East countries. In a rapid survey of
the German situation, the “grass-roots” editors inter-
viewed’ Mr. McCloy and other HICOG officials as well
as high-ranking German Government representatives at
the Federal Chancellery in Bonn.

Neo-Nazism has become a favorite theme in regard to
the Federal Republic, Mr. McCloy told the newsmen,
adding that in his opinion it was being overemphasized.
There is no doubt there will be another test of German
democracy in the future, the High Commissioner said,
but he expressed confidence that the Germans would
measure up to that test largely due to the influence
which the Allies have exerted in Germany.

The last year, Mr. McCloy stated, has been one in
which great strides have been made toward a European
community. He listed the Schuman Plan and the green
light given the establishment of the European Defense

Cover Photograph of December Issue

Efforts to identify the American boy and German
girl in the cover photograph of the December issue
of the Information Bulletin disclosed that the Na-
tivity Play, depicted in the photograph, was a
presentation at Christmastime 1950 by children in the
kindergarten class of the US Information Center in
‘Wiesbaden — not in Heidelberg as originally titled.

The American boy, portraying the role of Joseph,
is Charles Adams, son of Major Charles M. Adams,
stationed with the US Air Force in Wiesbaden. The
German girl, as Mary, is Christiane Eichgraeber, also
of Wiesbaden.

In expressing his regret that American officers in
Wiesbaden had been unsuccessful in urging the con-
tinuance of the kindergarten class as part of the
Information Center activities, Major Adams wrote,
“The training that my son received and the con-
nections that he made cannot be expressed in
monetary value or scholastic achievements, for it is
definitely a program that should have been kept
going...”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Meeting with Mr. McCloy (sitting at far end of (able)
and other HICOG officials are: Frank H. Afton, Ingle-
wood, Calif., Frederick L. Allman, Harrisonburg, Va.;
Sheldon Anderson, Tulare, Calif.; Harold Beck, Ocean-
side, Calif.; Mrs. Irene R. Bedard, Hibbing, Minn.; Buford
Boone, Tuscaloosa, Ala.; Hugh Boyd, New Brunswick,
N.J.; John F. Corcoran, Philadelphia, Pa.; L. Earle David-
son, Coldwater, Mich.; Edwin W. Dean, Inglewood, Calif.;
Miss Avelena de Pentima, Wichita, Kan.; Tim Elliot,
Akron, Ohio; Robert C. Embry, Baltimore, Md.; Clyde B.
Emert, Maryville, Tenn.; Mrs. Helena Farmer, New
Iberia, La.; John E. Fetzer, Kalamazoo, Mich.; James E.
Graham, Tifton, Ga.; J. S. Ralph Gray, Monroe, Mich.;
Whitmore Gray, Monroe, Mich.; Miss Rebecca F. Gross,
Lock Haven, Pa.; Mrs. Eloise H. Hanna, Birmingham,
Ala.; Mrs. Jerene A. Harnish, Ontario, Calif.; Fred Hart-
man, Boytown, Texas; Allen W. Hinkel, Wichita, Kansas;
Mrs, Arthur Hoiles, Alliance, Ohio; Mrs. Alice C. Hoiles,
Alliance, Ohio; R. S. Howard, Pocatello, Ida.; David K.
Howe, Burlington, Vt.; Elmer S. Hubbell, Middletown,
Conn.; Paul A. Jenkins, E] Centro, Calif.; John M. John-
ston, Chicago, Ill.; William H. Krueger, Duluth, Minn.;
Richard F. Lewis, Jr., Winchester, Va.; Harold McWhorter,
Weston, W. Va.; Philip F. Miller, Royal Oak, Mich.; Roy
Palmateer, Centerville, lowa; John R. Pepper, Memphis,
Tenn.; Roy Pinkerton, Ventural, Calif.; Daniel H. Ridder,
St. Paul, Minn.; James L. Wick, Niles, Ohio; and Ronald
B. Woodward, Dayton, Ohio. (PRD HICOG photo)

Community at Lisbon during the last NATO conference
as instances of “great progress.”

Citing the Saar question as one of the pressing cur-
rent problems in Germany today, Mr. McCloy said he
believes that most of Western Europe was agreed “this
noisome issue should not be allowed to plague the peace
of Europe.”

Various parliaments have taken this issue up, the
High Commissioner explained, “and it has become a fire
bell in the night." In reality, he said, not more than a few
thousand people are really concerned with the problem
and he expressed his conviction that people on both sides
of the Rhine would vote for a peaceful solution.

Mr. McCloy expressed his faith in the future integra-
tion of Germany with the democracies of the West
despite present problems. “We are now in the clean-up
stage," the High Commissioner said, “and we can see
light through the tunnel although, of course, anything
can arise in this complex European structure." -+-END

APRIL 1952 ~

--- Page 18 ---
Under the HICOG Exchanges Program, Mr. Schmidt spent three months in the United States. Participating
in the journalist program, he attended a study course at Columbia University in New York City and visited
many American newspapers. Since his return to Germany in early 1951, he has spoken before scores of
organizations and meetings in Hesse. Following is a resume, translated from German, of the principal points

he includes-in his talks.

Press of Two Nations

By ADALBERT SCHMIDT

Political and Economic Affairs Editor, “Giessener Freie Presse,” Giessen

HE PRINCIPLES OF American journalism are recog-

nized by us in Germany, and we admit ungrudgingly
that the Americans have attained high scientific stand-
ards. The quality of news, the absolute separation of
news from opinion and the comprehensive presentation
of both to arouse a maximum of reader interest are
examples of this development.

In the United States, as in Germany; the main function
of newspapers is to disseminate news among the public.
But while our readers often complain that paper shortage
keeps our dailies down to an average of eight pages,
we must wonder whether American city papers — with
at least 50 pages for regular and more than 100 pages
for week-end editions—are “readable.” We wonder
whether American readers are able to digest the most
important news of the wealth of material presented to
them, since they cannot possibly read the entire paper.

The American press adheres to the principle of giving
the readers straight news and of letting them make their
own picture of the situation. It assumes that the readers
do form such individual pictures, and subordinates to
this rule the general German newspaper tendency to
educate the public or to influence the readers in a
certain way.

American papers, even those under strong influence
by political parties or groups, consider it their foremost
mission to represent public opinion and comply with the
wishes of the people. As such guardians of public interest
and civil liberties vis-a-vis the government, they make
much wider use of their editorial pages as mirrors of
popular opinion. I think this represents a substantial
difference between the German and American presses.

HE “LETTERS TO the Editor’ column is an estab-

lished part of American papers, while still too many
Germans are reluctant to make use of this opportunity
to state their opinions in public with their full name and
address, The very close relationship between readers and
editors exerts a strong influence on the work of the
American press.

Because of this relationship, another rule of American
journalism is to present news and articles in a way that
they can be easily understood by any reader and that
they appeal to the greatest number. Expert treatises,
written by professionals in their own special terminology,

APRIL 1952

are unusual. By contrast, German papers are often proud
to run a story personally written by a president, minister,
mayor or prominent professor. American papers refuse
such articles and refer ‘‘VIPs" to the “Letters to the
Editor’ column, where they can air their opinions.

On the other hand, the American press uses many
more interviews than we do. Also, they do not restrict
their interviews to the professional sphere of the inter-
viewed, but inconspicuously include little human interest
episodes and experiences, which again appeal ta many
readers, Fortunately this kind of interview is being used
increasingly in Germany and is eliminating gradually the
articles kindly placed at our disposal from “higher up."

An outspoken “party press,"’ as we call the organs of
political parties, is almost unknown in the United States.
Though many papers tend to the Democratic or Repub-
lican side in their opinion, they are not dependent on
these parties. The very Democratic-minded New York

Adalbert Schmidt.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Times, for instance, favored the Republican candidate
Thomas E, Dewey in the 1948 presidential elections.

The editorial opinion of American papers is much less
identical with their editors’ personal opinion than in Ger-
many. Opinion is “made" as the majority of the readers
want it, which I consider a great danger. In a middle-
sized town in Pennsylvania, for instance, I found a
Democratic morning paper and a Republican evening
paper published by the same publisher and edited by the
same editor.

N AMERICAN CITIES, but also in middle-sized towns,

the press tries to compete with the news service of
radio stations. For our West German papers with only
one edition a day this would be a hopeless ente prise.
In the United States many papers with a circulation of
as little as 15,000 up are published several times a day,
each time with a new front page, featuring the latest
news not much later than the radio.

Of course, this practice demands that the major part
of the circulation be sold in the streets. In Germany the
street sellers handle mainly the so-called boulevard
papers, while the other dailies determine their circulation
figure by the number of regular subscribers. For the same
reason, 75 percent of all American dailies are evening
papers. The average American buys his paper in the late
afternoon, Many American wives have jobs in addition
to their households, and the families do not meet and
read the paper before evening. In Germany they have
dinner at noon and want to have their papers for after-
dinner reading.

The selection of news in the American press, save for
a few important major papers, is more restricted to local
topics. From our German point of view, we can only
regret that most of the American public get only few
news items from foreign countries, particularly from
Europe. It is the city reporters, not the news agencies,

who supply papers in middle-sized and small towns with
news and pictures.

UROPEANS READING AMERICAN papers such as

The New York Times should remember that these are
not “typical American papers,” just as New York cannot
be called a “typical American town.”

The shift of emphasis to local and provincial news
implies that the American papers have bigger reportorial
staffs than ours, and that their reporters are experts in
their particular fields of work. I met managing editors,
even of larger papers, who had written editorials about
Germany, but did not know that there is no longer a
German ‘Reich’ or that Berlin is not the capital of Ger-
many at the moment. Bewildered, they asked me what
the difference is between the duties of Mr. Heuss and
Mr. Adenauer.*

These editors have sat behind their desks for decades
and had little opportunity to see the world or their own
country. They may have never experienced the political
atmosphere of Washington, D.C., but they showed them-
selves experts on communal affairs. They were at home
just as much with the city budget as the city treasurer
himself, and their papers exercise a great influence on
public life in the community. Their counterparts in Ger-
many are likely to leave such matters to their city editors.

In addition to journalistic training facilities in practi-
cally every university, the American papers have an
excellent central training institute for their staffs in the
American Press Institute of Columbia University. With
a number of other German editors and publishers, I had
the privilege to participate in a course there, and I think
it would be wonderful if the German press had a similar
central institute, supported by all papers, for the initial
and in-job training of its editorial staffs. -+END

* Dr. Theodor Heuss is President — head of the Federal Republic;
Dr. Konrad Adenauer is chancellor — head of the Federal Government.

Exchange of Ideas to Aid Friendship

Future German-American friendship will depend largely
on “a true exchange of ideas and facts between the
people of the United States and Germany,” Dr. James
R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse, declared
in a letter to the Hessische Nachrichten, a newspaper
published in Kassel in northern Hesse.

Dr. Newman's statement was contained in an answer
to an open letter published in the Hessische Nachrichten,
which had suggested that American funds allocated for
a new US Information Center be used instead to assist
in the reconstruction of the city’s opera house.

Money allocated to the construction of a new Informa-
tion Center in Kassel comes from the dollar fund ap-
propriated by the United States Congress specifically for
such construction and cannot legally be used for any
other purpose, the commissioner's letter pointed out. He
added, however, that the fact that Kassel was chosen as
one of the few cities in the Federal Republic where a
new US Information Center would be constructed ‘can

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

be construed only as a recognition of the unique position
which the city occupies as an important center...”

Dr. Newman demonstrated his sympathy with the need
for new theater facilities when he stated, “We certainly
appreciate your efforts to have the theater rebuilt and
we agree there is a definite need for this and other new-
cultural institutions in your city.”

Noting that the US Government has in the past sup-
ported and contributed heavily to the building or rebuild-
ing of many German public and cultural institutions, the
commissioner stated, “It is my belief, however, that with
the changing of the economic and political situation in
Germany, such direct aid is less necessary and may not
be desirable.” The letter said future friendship would rest
rather on an exchange of facts and ideas, a program to
which the US Information Center is devoted: “Our desire”
is to see progressively better understanding between our
peoples, and the new Information Center in Kassel will:
certainly aid in reaching that goal," Dr. Newman said.

APRIL 1952

--- Page 20 ---
A review of Germany's foreign relations since the revision of the Occupation Statute in March 1951 was
presented by Chancellor Adenauer in addressing the annua] dinner meeting of the Foreign Press Association
in Bad Godesberg, near Bonn, March 25. The revision of the Occupation Statute permitted the German Federal
Republic to handle its own foreign affairs and Dr. Adenauer took the cabinet portfolio as foreign minister in
addition to his duties as chancellor. The Foreign Press Association is an organization of foreign correspondents
accredited to the Federal Government. The review printed below is a translation from the German of the text
as published in the ‘Bulletin’ of the Press and Information Office of the Federal Government.

One-Year Review

Germany’s Foreign Relations

By DR. KONRAD ADENAUER
Chancellor, Federal Republic of Germany

T IS A PLEASURE and an honor to be your guest

tonight. This brilliant reception by the Foreign Press
Association signifies the great importance of the work of
foreign press representatives in the Federal Republic.
Constant and detailed information, which has generally
become a basic component of democratic policy, is of
special importance to Germany due to our extraordinary
situation. Perhaps it is more imperative for us than for
others, to make our plans and intentions public. More
than others, too, we have to apply great care to explain-
ing our actions.

As you all know, it has been the paramount goal of
the Federal Government from the very beginning of its
work, to see all of Germany integrated into the com-
munity of free nations on a basis of partnership. Ger-
many's position among its neighbors is a problem re-
quiring continuous and incessant work, because the re-
lationships between nations are in a process of constant
development.

Political and diplomatic work toward this goal of Ger-
many's integration into the free world cannot achieve
any permanent results, unless it is supported by a general
public approval of the Federal Government's policy.

YEAR HAS PASSED since we met here last for the

same event, It may be worthwhile, indeed, to make
a brief survey of the Federal Government's activities in
the foreign policy field. It will be worthwhile, I think,
because this brief ‘survey will show the steady and straight
character of the development.

The Federal Government's task in foreign policy was,
first of all, to restore credit to Germany's name, after the
Nazi regime had completely destroyed it. This task, I
think, can be solved only if we pursue a clear and
straight foreign policy line.

It has been our constant aim-to cooperate actively in
the building of European unity. The idea of European
unification was born after World War I. But it was the
chaos World War II left in Europe which brought to
light this idea as a determination of all segments of
population in all European countries. Left to its own
devices, no European country is today in a position to

APRIL 1952

guarantee freedom and security to its citizens, not even
with individual support from the United States.
Moreover, the alert elements and particularly the youth
of the European nations clearly realized after the last
war that there was no prospect of a political or spiritual
future appropriate to the traditions and achievements of
this continent, if Europe were to retain a system of obsti-
nate and exaggerated nationalism. The modern European
feels that he can unfold his spiritual and economic ener-
gies only in an international community of purpose.
These tendencies were strongly accelerated by the
world-wide political situation, especially the attitude of
the Soviet Union. Since the outbreak of the Korean war
the conviction of the farsighted — that the national
states by themselves cannot protect their freedoms and
territories — has general recognition. The dramatic rush
of developments implied that the idea of European inte-
gration progressed faster than we could have expected.

URING THE YEAR on which we look back tonight,
we have made very substantial progress on the road
toward this goal of building a European community and

At Schuman Plan Treaty talks in Paris in April 1951 are,
left to right, Count Carlo Sforza of Italy, Robert Schuman
of France, Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of Germany and
(‘Amerika Dienst" photo)

Dirk Stikker of the Netherlands.

--- Page 21 ---
integrating the Federal Republic into this community on
the basis of a free partnership. May I remind you, for
instance, of the conclusion of the Schuman Plan Treaty,
which comprises the basis of a vast common market for
iron and coal, which will help the European nations to
increase their productivity and raise their standards of
living. I remind you further of the negotiations on a
European defense community, which have reached the final
stage now. This defense community will lead to an effec-
tive protection of our continent against threats from without.

There is no better way to overcome narrow-minded
nationalism than by the youth of the European nations
pooling their efforts for the common defense of freedom.
A close cooperation with all freedom loving nations of
the Atlantic hemisphere is developing which will in-
fluence all fields of our political, economic and private life.

For us Germans, another milestone in this development
—and one which only history will be able to appraise
properly —is the forthcoming conclusion of the General
Agreement.* It will restore political freedom of move-
ment to Germany and will bring us back into the com-
munity of the other freedom loving nations as equal
partners. Among the conferences on this agreement, the
outstanding one was the first meeting between the
federal chancellor and the foreign ministers of the three
Western Powers in Paris in November 1951, where the
basic agreement was reached.

I also want to remind you of the memorable meeting
last December of: the foreign ministers of the countries
forming the developing European defense community. At
that meeting all member countries agreed to start work
on a European constitution immediately after the defense
community has become effective. The adoption of this
constitution will be the climax of the great European
integration development.

AST WEEK I RETURNED from the meeting of the
Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in
Paris, and I reported to the cabinet this morning. Now I
would like to give you a picture of the situation, as I
see it after the latest Paris negotiations.

Our work in Paris was guided by the determination to
push ahead the process of European unification, which
has entered its decisive phase, and to give it a new
impetus tto overcome natural difficulties. It was remark-
able that the responsible European statesmen shared one
opinion: if Europe is to be unified, the Saar problem must
be solved. The solution can be found only by France
and Germany in a European spirit.

My conferences brought the beginnings of such a
solution, which must now be carefully considered and
weighed. After the Committee of Ministers conference, I
met with the foreign ministers of Great Britain and France
and the American ambassador in Paris, to consider the
latest Soviet note** and prepare a reply. .

* The “General Agreement’ now under negotiation between the
United States, the United Kingdom and France, on the one hand, and the
German Government, on the other, is the core of a number of contractual
arrangements designed to replace the present Occupation Statute.

** The Soviet note of March 10, 1952, proposed the conclusion of
a peace treaty with Germany and the establishment of a German
national army. See page 23 for text of US reply.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

The reply to this note was delivered by the gove:n-
ments of the United States, Great Britain and France in,
Moscow this morning. It will be released for publication
tomorrow. There was:complete agreement that the answer
should concentrate on four major points. You will under-
stand that I cannot give you the text now, but I think the |
basic tendency of the reply will be interesting to you.

Our negotiations started out from the principle that the
restoration of a unified, democratic Germany is the pre-
requisite for lasting peace in Europe. This reunification of
Germany and the establishment of an all-German govern-
ment can be achieved only through genuinely free elec-
tions under international control.

Right now the Soviet Union has an opportunity to prove
its good will by permitting the UN commission to enter
the Soviet occupied areas of Germany. The commission
came to Germany to determine whether the existing con-
ditions allow all-German elections, and it had to return
to Geneva without results, because the Soviet authorities
refused to cooperate. However, we will not give up the
hope that the Soviet Union will still give it an op-
portunity to discharge its mission.

HE WESTERN POWERS and Germany also agreed

that an all-German government must have the free-
dom to join alliances compatible with the principles and
aims of the United Nations. It appeared necessary to
state once more that the Potsdam Agreement did not
determine the frontiers of a unified Germany. The
Western Powers share the Federal Government's opinion
that the future German borders can be established only
in a peace treaty, with German participation.

Concerning the Soviet proposal to establish national
German armed forces, we agreed that this would mean a
setback to the European development. The Western
Powers as well as the Federal Government consider a
European unification the best guaranty for peace in
Europe. This policy of European unification is a threat
to no one. Its defensive character is beyond doubt.

Nobody would be happier than we, if the Soviets
discarded their past policy, and we know that the Ger-
man people share this feeling. Due to our geographical
position and the division of Germany, we are more inter-
ested than any other country in a genuine settlement
with the East. But this settlement must not be bought at
the price of freedom.

This conviction is not dependent on the fluctuations of
day-to-day politics. We shall not let ourselves be deviated
by anachronistic utterances recalling, or appealing to,
nationalism. We know that we act in accordance with
the demands of our time and that therefore our work
will succeed and lead us to the reunification of Germany
and to peace. I have given you a brief outline of the pro-
gram and the road which the responsible statesmen of
Europe and the Atlantic hemisphere follow. The road is
uphill and studded with many obstacles. We can reach our *
goal only if we are supported by public opinion of the free- -
dom loving nations. My appeal to you, the representa-
tives of public opinion abroad, is to help us fulfill this
great task. +END

.

APRIL 1957

--- Page 22 ---
The Struggle for German Unity

By HENRY B. COX
Office of German Public Affairs, US Department of State

OSTWAR EFFORTS TO UNIFY Germany may be

divided into two general phases. The first encompassed
the period 1945-48 in which German unification was
sought on the basis of the economic and political prin-
ciples of the Potsdam Agreement. These attempts came
to a halt in 1948 with the imposition of the Berlin
blockade and the breakdown of Four-Power control.
The second phase is represented by the efforts during
1949 and 1950 to carry out the much more limited steps
toward unification called for in the modus vivendi for
Germany agreed upon at the Paris meeting of the Council
of Foreign Ministers in 1949, and the Western Allied
and West German initiative in 1951 and 1952 which
culminated in the appointment by the General Assembly
of the United Nations of a commission to investigate
and determine whether conditions for free elections exist
throughout Germany. This article deals primarily with
the latter phase of developments relating to German
unification.

At the Paris meeting of the Council of Foreign Minis-
ters in May 1949, the delegations of the United States,
France und the United Kingdom offered a proposal for
restoring the political and economic unity of Germany.
The Three-Power proposal called for the unification of
Germany in accordance with the German Basic Law,
which ‘had been promulgated a short time before, by the
making of appropriate arrangements enabling the states
of the Soviet Zone to accede to it.

The proposal further stipulated a number of principles
which would apply to such accession of the states of
the Eastern zone, such as freedom of person, freedom
of speech, freedom for all democratic political parties,
freedom of elections, and the independence of the judi-
ciary. In addition, the proposal pro-

former basis as the organ representing supreme authority
in Germany, as well as the re-establishment of the Inter-
Allied Kommandatura. The Soviet proposal also provided
for (a) the creation of an all-German State council on
the basis of the economic organs existing at the time in
the Eastern and Western zones of Germany and (b) the
re-establishment of the Magistrat of Berlin.

No agreement was reached at the Paris meeting on
the question of German unity.

Following the Paris meeting of the Council of Foreign
Ministers, the Soviets intensified their propaganda cam-
paign designed to convince the German people that the
USSR and the Communist parties in East and West
Germany were the only true proponents of German uni-
fication, the conclusion of a peace treaty, and the with-
drawal of Occupation Forces, Through the persistent
efforts of the “National Front" committees and the Soviet
and Communist-controlled German press in both East
and West Germany, the Soviets tried to keep the ini-
tiative on German unity. The Soviets have sought to
gain popular support through appeals which follow the
traditional lines of the policy of German-Russian friend-
ship of Bismarck, Gustav Stresemann’s idea of Germany
as a bridge between East and West, and attempts at
German-Russian cooperation during the Weimar Republic.

Faced with these developments and impressed by the
necessity for restating the position of the Western Allies
on the reunification issue, the US High Commissioner
for Germany released a statement calling for the political
reunification of Germany on the basis of free, all-German
elections. Issued on Feb. 28, 1950, the McCloy statement
deprecated the Soviet device of “the so-called National
Front” as a “means to democratic unity" and decried
Soviet exploitation of the natural wish

vided for the prohibition of “all police
formations exercising political activi-
ties.” The proposal also included pro-
visions for a Four-Power Occupation
Statute with reserved powers, a quad-
tripartite High Commission operating
with majority vote, an agreement pro-
hibiting certain industries and restrict-
ing production in others, provision
for the delivery of reparations, and
the return to German ownership of
industrial enterprises acquired after
May 8, 1945.

HE SOVIET PROPOSAL for eco-
nomic and political unity called
for the re-establishment of the quadri-
partite Allied Control Council on its

Bulletin.

This review is reprinted from
the Department of State Bulletin
of April 14 for the information of
US personnel in Germany. The
author, Henry B. Cox, is officer-in-
charge, Division of German Infor-
mation, Office of German Public
Affairs, Department of State. He
formerly served in the Office of
.German Political Affairs, where he
specialized on German-Soviet pol-
icy. The text of the US note of
March 25 and the unofficial trans-
lation of the Soviet note of March
10, as well as the press conference
statement by Secretary Acheson
of March 26, are from the April 7
issue of the Department of State

of the German people for unity while
denying to them the free and demo-
cratic processes by which unity can
be obtained. Mr. McCloy also empha-
sized the readiness of the United States
to “assist the German people to achieve
unity based on true democratic prin-
ciples and reflecting the aspirations of
the entire German nation."

NN MARCH 22 the Federal Republic

of Germany issued a statement
which supported the US High Com-
missioner's proposal, and embodied a
concrete program for the achievement
of German unity. This program called
for: (1) all-German elections for a
national constituent assembly to be

APRIL 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
proclaimed following promulgation of an election law
by the four Occupying Powers; (2) supervision of the
elections to the National Assembly by election commis-
sions established by the four power Occupation Powers
or representatives of the United Nations; and (3) prep-
aration by this assembly of a draft German constitution
to be ratified or rejected in a free national referendum.
To these proposals, the Bonn Government added four
conditions which it considered as prerequisites for the
conduct of free election. Public reaction to the Bonn
offer was generally favorable in West Germany, but as
expected, the response of the Soviet Zone government
was to reject the Adenauer proposals.

On May 25, 1950, Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US
commandant in Berlin, delivered a letter on behalf of
the US High Commissioner for Germany to Gen. V. I.
Chuikov, Soviet commandant for Berlin, on the question
of German unity and all-German elections. The letter
referred to the discussion of German unity by the for-
eign ministers of the United Kingdom, France and the
United States, at their London meeting and attached the
text of their conclusions on German unification and the
manner in which it might be accomplished. The letter
also made reference to the public communique released
by the three Western foreign ministers on May 14 which
stated that the Western Powers did not contemplate the
conclusion of a separate peace treaty with the Federal
Republic of Germany, in particular because such a move
would involve continued partition of Germany — a con-
cept with which the Western Powers did not wish to
associate themselves.

The letter to General Chuikov further called attention
to Paragraph I of the March 22 declaration of the Federal
Republic suggesting that the four Occupation Powers
should assume the responsibility for framing an electoral
law under which all-German elections might be conduc-
ted. The US Government, the letter indicated, was prep-
ared to engage in conversations on the High Commis-
sion level for the purpose of framing such an electoral
law, pointing toward the formation of an all-German
government “in conformity with the principles set forth
in the attached statement of the foreign ministers.”

No reply was ever made to this letter.

DDRESSING THE BUNDESTAG (Federal Assembly)
of the Federal Republic on Sept. 14, 1950, Chancellor
Konrad Adenauer condemned the elections to be held in
the Soviet Zone of Germany on Oct. 15 and referred
again to the Federal Republic's March 22 proposals for
holding all-German elections along democratic lines.
Immediately following Chancellor Adenauer's speech,
the Bundestag passed a resolution calling upon the Fed-
eral Government to make a formal request to the Occu-
pation Powers to arrange in their zones of occupation
for the holding of “free, universal, secret and direct
elections to an all-German parliament, under internation-
al control, and in which everyone will have an equal
vote.” .
In accordance with the resolution of the Bundestag,
the federal chancellor addressed separate letters to the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

four commissioners on Oct: 1, noting with satisfaction
that the four governments taking part in the occupation
of Germany had repeatedly expressed their willingness -
to strive toward the goal of the restoration of the politi-
cal and governmental unity of Germany. Chancellor
Adenauer statéd that “the first and indispensable step °
to achieve this end is the convocation of a constituent
German national assembly," and suggested the following
measures to achieve this end:

(1) All-German elections to a national constituent
assembly shall be announced following enactment of an
electoral law by the four. Occupying Powers.

(2) Elections to the national constituent assembly shall
in all parts of Germany take place under the supervision
of commissions composed of representatives of the four
Occupying Powers or of representatives of the UN.

(3) The role of the national constituent assembly shall
be the drafting of a German constitution. This draft con-
stitution shall be submitted to the German people for
approval.

In addition to the measures cited, the letter set forth
certain guarantees of personal afd political freedom of
movement and activity as prerequisite for the holding of
all-German elections,

FTER CONSULTATION, THE US, UK and French high

commissioners dispatched separate communications
dated Oct. 9 to General Chuikov referring to their as yet
unanswered letters of May 25 and enclosing copies of
the Adenauer letter of Oct. 1, the Bundestag resolution
of Sept. 14 and the Adenauer statement made in the
Bundestag on the same date. The three high commis-
sioners indicated their endorsement of the Federal
Republic as a “government freely elected by the people”
and “entitled to speak for Germany” and commended to
the attention of General Chuikov and the Soviet Govern-
ment the aforementioned documents as “pronouncements
of the German people."

In conclusion the three Western Powers indicated that
they shared the views of the Federal Republic on the
Oct. 15 Soviet Zone elections and informed the Soviet
Government that it must bear full responsibility for
obstructing the accomplishment of the reunification of
Germany in accordance with its obligations under Pots-
dam.

The next important development on the unity issue
came with the release on Oct. 21 of the Prague com-
munique at the conclusion of the meeting of Soviet and
satellite foreign ministers. In brief, the communique
referred to the Sept. 19 communique issued in New York
by the three Western foreign ministers and charged that
the chief concern of the New York meeting was ‘the
question of re-creating the German army, the question
of the remilitarization of Western Germany.”

The communique also charged that the question of
ending the state of war with Germany was being brought
up “in order to postpone as long as possible the con-
clusion of a peace treaty with Germany and thus the
unification of Germany.’ In conclusion the Eastern

APRIL 1952

--- Page 24 ---
foreign ministers stated that they regarded it as an im-
mediate necessity that —

Firstly, the United States, British, French and the Soviet
Governments should publish a declaration that they will not
permit the remilitarization of Germany or its inclusion in any
sort of aggressive plans, and that they will determinedly
endeavor to see that the Potsdam Agreement regarding the
creation of prerequisites for the formation of a united, peace-
loving, democratic German state is really carried out;

Secondly, all restrictions that are obstructing the development
of peacetime German economy be removed, and the restoration
of German war potential not be permitted;

Thirdly, a peace treaty with Germany be forthwith concluded,
with a restoration of the unity of the German state in con-
formity with the Potsdam Agreement, and the occupation troops
of all the great powers be withdrawn from Germany within a
year of the conclusion of the peace treaty;

Fourthly, an all-German constituent council be formed from
representatives of Eastern and Western Germany on the princi-
ple of parity, for the purpose of preparing the formation of
provisional, democratic, peace-loving, all-German sovereign
government, this council to submit the proper proposals for
common approval by the Governments of the USSR, the United
States, Great Britain and France, and, until such time as an all-
German government is formed, to be included in discussions on
the working out of a peace treaty. With regard to this proposal,
the German people may, under given circumstances, be con-
sulted directly.

On their side, the Governments of the USSR, Albania, Bul-
garia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Rumania, Hungary and the Ger-
man Democratic Republic will do everything possible to facili-
tate the solution of the immediate tasks in the interest of con-
solidating peace and international security.

HE PRAGUE MEETING, convened for the announced

purpose of discussing “the remilitarization of West
Germany,” followed closely on the heels of the delivery
on Oct. 19 of a Soviet note rejecting the protest made
by the three Western Powers the preceding May against
the existence in the Soviet Zone of paramilitary police.
In their reply, the Soviets charged that the Western
Powers themselves were engaged in establishing a Ger-
man army and concluded by stating that "the USSR will
not tolerate such measures.” .

As a‘ logical follow-up to the Prague conference, the
Soviets delivered notes to the US, UK and French Gov-
ernments on Nov. 3, enclosing copies of the Prague com-
munique and calling for a Four-Power meeting to discuss
the demilitarization provisions of the Potsdam Agree-
ment. The Western Allied reply and the Soviet note of
Dec, 31 then followed.

Meanwhile, on Dec. 1, Otto Grotewohl, premier of the
“German Democratic Republic," had a letter delivered
to Chancellor Adenauer at Bonn. Referring to the “nation-
al emergency brought about by the division of Ger-
many, which is accentuated by the remilitarization and
inclusion of West Germany in plans for preparation for
war" and citing the need for a German solution to the

US Secretary of State Dean Acheson, at his press
conference in Washington March 26, made the fol-
lowing statement concerning the US Teply to the
Soviet proposal.

I should like to anticipate your questions and
speak for a moment on the reply to the Soviet note
of March 10 on Germany which the representatives
of the United States, United Kingdom and France in
Moscow delivered yesterday to the Soviet Foreign
Ministry.

One of the primary purposes of the reply is to
seek clarification of Soviet intentions with respect
to procedures and conditions which would permit
all-German elections, . under international super-
vision, and the establishment of a democratic and
free Germany. The Soviet note has dealt with this
subject in an unclear manner and all our efforts
during the past several years to obtain Soviet
acceptance of satisfactory procedures have been
unsuccessful. As pointed out in our note, it has
seemed to us that Soviet cooperation with the UN
Commission of Investigation would be especially
significant as a touchstone of Soviet intentions,

When the Soviet Union suggests that the four
powers ‘discuss a German peace treaty, the US
Government cannot but be reminded of the seven
fruitless years of discussions with Soviet representa-
tives about an Austrian treaty. It would be an
encouraging augury for any future discussion about
a German treaty if the Soviet Government were to
respond favorably to the proposals for an Austrian

Statement by Secretary Dean Acheson

, area, The US Government firmly believes that the

treaty contained in the note of the United States
Government of March 13.

The Soviet note has led the United States to
reaffirm in its reply its policies toward Germany
and Europe, The peace and prosperity of Europe
demand that unity among its people shall supersede
the play of national interests and national forces
which have brought so much distress to the Euro-
pean Continent.

Certain aspects of Soviet policy pursued since the
close of the war have strongly tended to accent the
need for a rapid development of a close European
community. The US Government has supported and
will continue to support measures for the formation
of a community in Europe designed’ to develop the
economic strength and defensive capacity of the
participating countries as a whole.

Germany must be allowed to play its part in
building a strong European community capable of
developing its freedoms and of defending itself from
aggression or subversion. The US Government is
convinced that such a community is entirely defen-
sive in character and purpose.

The Soviet proposal, with its emphasis on national
forces, points to the past and away from the estab-
lishment of a new Europe in which national rivalries
would be subordinated to the interests of the entire

European approach represents the most constructive
means of eliminating dangerous tensions. It has,
accordingly, sought to make clear in its reply that it
will not be deflected from pursuing this.path of peace.

APRIL 1952

21

INFORMATION BULLETIN

\

--- Page 25 ---
German problem, Mr. Grotewohl proposed the formation
of an all-German constituent council with participation
on the basis of parity of representatives of East and
West Germany.

This council would prepare the formation of an “all-
German, sovereign, democratic and peaceloving pro-
visional government" and would submit proposals to the
Governments of the USSR, US, Great Britain and France
for common ratification. At the same time it would con-
sult with the named governments until the formation of
an all-German government on the draft of a peace treaty.
Mr. Grotewohl further suggested that a plebiscite of the
German people on this proposal could be carried out.

N JAN. 15, 1951, Chancellor Adenauer replied to the

Grotewohl letter by issuing a public statement. In
brief, Chancellor Adenauer referred to the March 22,
1950, declaration of the Federal Republic which con-
tained proposals for the achievement of German unity
under conditions of freedom, pointed to the failure of
the Soviets to respond to the Bundestag proposals for
German unification forwarded to General Chuikov on
Oct. 9, 1950, and stated clearly that the West German
government could enter into talks on German unity
“only with those who are prepared to recognize and
guarantee without reserve a constitutional order, a free
form of government, protection of civil rights and pres-
ervation of freedom.”

The Communist propaganda campaign on unity was
continued when on Jan. 30, 1951, the People’s Chamber
of the East German government passed a resolution
addressed to the West German Bundestag, in which it
indicated its willingness to conduct negotiations “‘con-
cerning all questions connected with the creation and
tasks of the all-German Constituent Council.”

The Federal Republic issued a statement on the same
date indignantly rejecting the right claimed by the East
German parliament to speak ‘in the name of true democ-
racy and of the whole German people.” It further called
upon the German people “not to allow themselves to be
confused by actions of the kind contrived by the Soviet
Zone government.”

Having decided that it would not reply directly to
the People’s Chamber appeal, the Bundestag on March 9
passed a resolution which referred to “the contemplated
conference of the four Occupation Powers" and called
upon the Federal Government to submit to the Four
Powers a petition for the preparation and execution of
free, all-German elections. On the same date the Bundes-
tag approved the text of a note addressed by Chancellor
Adenauer to the Allied High Commission which echoed
the Bundestag resolution, calling upon the Four Powers
to arrange for all-German elections as soon as possible

+ and emphasizing that genuinely free elections could onlv
be held if ‘the indispensable freedoms" were guaranteed
in the Soviet Zone.

In a speech before the People’s Chamber on March 4,
1951, East German Premier Grotewohl rejected the Federal

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

Republic's proposals for free, all-German elections and
accused Mr, Adenauer of ignoring the will of the Ger-
man people,

HE NEXT MAJOR DEVELOPMENT in East-West ex-

changes on the unity question resulted from the
meeting of the foreign ministers of France, the United
Kingdom and the United States which was held in
Washington from Sept. 10 through Sept. 15, 1951. At the
conclusion of this conference, the three ministers issued
a communique in which they “noted with satisfaction
the results already achieved by their three countries,
together with the other free nations of the world, in
order to insure their common security and to safeguard
the peace.” .

In addition, they indicated that they had agreed upon
instructions to the Allied High Commission for Germany
for the negotiation of mutually acceptable agreements
with the Federal Republic of Germany, the effect of
which will be to transform that relationship completely.
In this connection they also referred to their hope that
current negotiations with the Federal Republic would
result in Allied-German agreement on a German con-
tribution to Western defense.

Reacting quickly, East German Premier Grotewohl
denounced the Western communique at a special session
of the People’s Chamber on Sept. 15 as “a gross decep-
tion of the German people” which should not be allowed
to succeed. Reflecting obvious Communist concern over
the results of the Washington conference, Mr. Grotewohl
declared: “What San Francisco achieved for Japan,
Washington is to accomplish for Germany.”

On Sept. 27 Chancellor Adenauer replied indirectly to
the Grotewohl People’s Chamber proposals in a speech
before the Bundestag in which he stated that “the
supreme aim of the policy of the Federal Government is
and remains that of re-establishing German unity a free
and united Europe. This unity should be based on the
free decision of the entire German people.”

Chancellor Adenauer then referred to the repeated
proposals of the Federal Government for free, general,
equal, secret and direct elections for a constituent nation-
al assembly and cited the rejection of these proposals
by the Soviet Zone authorities and failure of the Soviets
to reply to any of these proposals. He then declared that
the Bonn government would submit an election procedure
for all-German elections which would in its essential
points embody safeguards to insure all the necessary
freedoms, These points were then spelled out in detail
by Chancellor Adenauer.

He indicated that it was the position of the Federal
Republic that really free elections were possible only if
the prerequisites for the free expression of the will of
the people are fulfilled in fact in the Soviet Zone, and
called for the creation of a ‘neutral international com-
mission under the supervision of the United Nations" to
examine, in the Soviet Zone and in the territory of the
Federal Republic, “in how far existing circumstances
permit of free elections taking place."

APRIL 1952

--- Page 26 ---
The Adenauer statement was adopted by the Bundestag
by an overwhelming majority, together with a motion by
the opposition Social Democratic Party (SPD) calling
upon the Federal Government to forward to the four
Occupying Powers a request “to provide the German
people with the earliest opportunity to conduct free,
general, equal, secret and direct elections under inter-
national control" for a constituent assembly. Another
SPD motion called for free elections in Berlin.

N OCT. 4, in accordance with the Bundestag resolu-

tions, Chancellor Adenauer addressed a letter to the
Tripartite Allied High Commission, requesting the gov-
ernments of the four Occupation Powers to arrange for
all-German elections. In this connection, Chancellor
Adenauer called upon the powers represented in the
Allied High Commission to propose the establishment by
the UN of a commission to carry out investigations in
the Soviet Zone and in the Federal Republic to ascertain
to what extent prevailing circumstances permit the hold-
ing of free elections.

The Allied High Commission replied to the Adenauer
letter on Oct. 15 assuring him that the three govern-
ments would, at the first suitable opportunity, place the
views of the Federal Republic before the United Nations
and would propose that the United Nations undertake
an investigation over the whole area of Germany as
suggested in the Adenauer letter. In fulfillment of this
pledge, the United States, the United Kingdom and
France presented a resolution at the sixth session of the
United Nations General Assembly calling for the ap-
pointment of “an impartial international commission to
carry out a simultaneous investigation in the Federal
Republic of Germany, in Berlin, and in the Soviet Zone
of Germany in order to determine whether existing con-
ditions will make it possible to hold genuinly free elec-
tions throughout these areas."

This resolution, which was adopted on Dec. 20, 1951,
by the overwhelming vote of 50 to 6, resulted in the
appointment of a commission composed of representatives
of Brazil, Iceland, the Netherlands, Pakistan and Poland.
The Polish Government declined to designate a representa-
tive.

OLLOWING ITS CONSTITUTION, the Commission
held its first meeting on Feb. 11, 1952, at Paris. On
Feb. 23 from its permanent headquarters at Geneva it
addressed communications to the chairman of the Council
of the Allied High Commission for Germany for trans-
mittal to the authorities of the Federal Republic and to
the authorities of West Berlin, and to the Soviet Control
Commission for transmittal to the authorities of the Soviet
Zone of Germany and the authorities of East Berlin.
Both the Western Allied and German authorities in
West Germany and Berlin responded promptly, assuring
the Commission of their complete cooperation in facilitat-
ing the task assigned to it, and subsequently welcomed
the Commission's members at Bonn and Berlin.

In sharp contrast to this reaction, neither the Soviets

nor the East German authorities have responded to three

APRIL 1952

23

requests on the part of the Commission for permission
to enter the Soviet Zone of Germany and the Soviet
Sector of Berlin, Moreover, through their various prop-
aganda mouthpieces — both human and journalistic —
the Soviets and their East German puppets have so far
rejected the Commission and sought to malign its mem-
bers. It remains to be seen whether the Soviets will
revise their attitude toward the Commission and permit
it to fulfill its important mission which is so crucial to
future progress toward the realization of German unity.

* * *

On March 10, 1952, Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister
Andrei A. Gromyko handed to Elim O'Shaughnessy, US
charge d'affaires at Moscow, a note containing proposals
for a treaty of peace with Germany. Identical notes were
handed to the British and French ambassadors at Mos-
cow. On March 25, the US, British and French embassies
at Moscow delivered identical notes of reply to the
Soviet Government.

Text of she US Government's reply to the Soviet
Government's proposal follows.

The United States Government, in consultation with the Gov-
ernments of the United Kingdom and France, has given the most
careful consideration to the Soviet Government's note of March
10, 1952, which proposed the conclusion of a peace treaty with
Germany. They have also consulted the Government of the Ger-
man Federal Republic and the representatives of Berlin.

The conclusion of a just and lasting peace treaty which would
end the division of Germany has always been and remains an
essential objective of'the United States Government. As the
Soviet Government itself recognizes, the conclusion of such a
treaty requires the formation of an all-German government,”
expressing the will of the German people. Such a government
can only be set up on the basis of free elections in the Federal
Republic, the Soviet Zone of Occupation and Berlin, Such elec-
tions can only be held in circumstances which safeguard the
national and individual liberties of the German people. In order
to ascertain whether this first essential condition exists, the
General Assembly of the United Nations has appointed a Com-
mission to carry out a simultaneous investigation in the Federal
Republic, the Soviet Zone and Berlin. The Commission of In-
vestigation has been assured of the necessary facilities in the
Federal Republic and in Western Berlin. The United States Gov-
ernment would be glad to learn that such facilities will also
be afforded in the Soviet Zone and in Eastern Berlin, to enable
the Commission to carry out its task.

The Soviet Government's proposals do not indicate what the
international position of an all-German government would be
before the conclusion of a peace treaty. The United States Gov-
ernment considers that the all-German government should be
free both before and after the conclusion of a peace treaty to
enter into associations compatible with the principles and pur-
poses of the United Nations.

In putting forward its proposal for a German peace treaty,
the Soviet Government expressed its readiness also to discuss
other proposals, The United States Government has taken due note
of this statement. In its view, it will not be possible to engage
in detailed discussion of a peace treaty until conditions have
been created for free elections and until a free all-German
government which could participate in such discussion has been
formed. There are several fundamental questions which would
also have to be resolved.

For example, the United States Government notes that the
Soviet Government makes the statement that the territory of
Germany is determined by frontiers laid down by the decisions
of the Potsdam conference. The United States Government would
recall that in fact no definitive German frontiers were laid down
by the Potsdam decisions, which clearly provided that the final
determination of territorial questions must await the peace
settlement.

The United States Government also observes that the Soviet
Government now considers that the peace treaty should provide
for the formation of German national land, air and sea forces,
while at the same time imposing limitations on Germany's free-
dom to enter into association with other countries, The United

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
States Government considers that such provisions would be a
step backwards and might jeopardize the emergence in Europe
of a new era in which international relations would be based
on cooperation and not on rivalry and distrust.

Being convinced of the need of a policy of European unity, the
United States Government is giving its full support to plans
designed to secure the participation of Germany in a purely
defensive European community which will preserve freedom,
prevent aggression, and preclude the revival of militarism, The
United States Government believes that the proposal of the
Soviet Government for the formation of German national forces
is inconsistent with the achievement of this objective. The United
States Government remains convinced that this policy of Euro-
pean unity cannot threaten the interests of any country and
represents the true path of peace.

Unofficial translation of the Soviet note of March 10
follows.

The Soviet Government considers it necessary to direct the
attention of the Government of the United States of America
to the fact that although about seven years have passed since
the end of the war in Europe a peace treaty with Germany is
not yet concluded.

With the aim of eliminating such an abnormal situation the
Soviet Government, supporting the communication of the Gov-
ernment of the German Democratic Republic to the Four Powers
requesting that conclusion of a peace treaty with Germany be
expedited, on its part addresses itself to the Government of the
United States and also to the Governments of Great Britain and
France with the proposal to urgently discuss the question of a
peace treaty with Germany with a view to preparing in the
nearest future an agreed draft peace treaty and present it for
examination by an appropriate international conference with the
participation of all interested governments. It is understood that
such a peace treaty must be worked out with the direct partic-
ipation of Germany in the form of an all-German government.
From this it follows that the USSR, USA, England and France,
who are fulfilling control functions in Germany, must also con-
sider the question of conditions favoring the earliest formation
of an all-German government expressing the will of the German
people.

With the aim of facilitating the preparation of a draft peace
treaty the Soviet Government on its part proposes for the con-
sideration of the Governments of the ‘USA, Great Britain and
France the attached draft as a basis of a peace treaty with
Germany.

In proposing consideration of this draft the Soviet Govern-
ment at the same time expressed its readiness also to consider
other possible proposals on ‘this question.

The government of the USSR expects to receive the reply of
the Government of the USA to the mentioned proposal at the
earliest possible time.

Similar notes have also been sent by the Soviet Government
to the Governments of Great Britain and France.

Enclosure
Draft of Soviet Government
Of Peace Treaty with Germany

Almost seven years have passed since the end of the war
with Germany but Germany still does not have a peace treaty,
finds itself divided, continues to remain in an unequal situation
as regards other governments. It is necessary to end such an ab-
normal situation. This responds to the aspiration of all peace-
loving peoples. It is impossible to assure a just status to the
legal. national interests of the German people without the
earliest conclusion of a peace treaty with Germany.

Conclusion of a peace treaty with Germany has an important
significance for the strengthening of peace in Europe. A peace
treaty with Germany will permit final decision of questions
which have arisen as a consequence of the second world war.
The European states which have suffered from German aggres-
sion, particularly the neighbors of Germany, have a vital interest
in the solution of these questions. Conclusion of a peace treaty
with Germany will aid improvement of the international situ-
ation as a whole and at the same time aid the establishment
of a lasting peace.

The necessity of hastening the conclusion of a peace treaty
with Germany is required by the fact that the danger of re-
establishment of German militarism which has twice unleashed
world wars has not been eliminated in as much as appropriate
provisions of the Potsdam conference still remain unfilled. A

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

peace treaty with Germany must guarantee elimination of the
possibility of a rebirth of German militarism and German
aggression.

Conclusion of the peace treaty with Germany will establish
for the German people permanent conditions of peace, will aid
the development of Germany as a unified democratic and peace-
loving government in accordance with the Potsdam provisions
and will assure to the German people the possibilty of peaceful
cooperation with other peoples. '

As a result of this, the Governments of the Soviet Union, the
United States of America, Great Britain and France have decided
urgently to set about working out a peace treaty with Germany.

The Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United States of America, Great Britain and France consider
that preparations of the peace treaty should be accomplished
with the participation of Germany in the form of an all-German
government and that the peace treaty with Germany should
be formed on the following basis:

Basis of Peace Treaty
With Germany

Participants

Great Britain, the Soviet Union, the United States of America,
France, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Holland and other
governments which participated with their armed forces in the
war against Germany.

Political provisions

(1) Germany is re-established as a unified state thereby an
end is put to the division of Germany and a unified Germany
has a possibility of development as an independent, democratic,
peace-loving state.

(2) All armed forces of the Occupying Powers must be with-
drawn from Germany not later than one year from the date of
entry into force of the peace treaty. Simultaneously all foreign
military bases on the territory of Germany must be liquidated.

(3) Democratic rights must be guaranteed to the German
people to the end that all persons under German jurisdiction
without regard to race, sex, language or religion enjoy the
rights of man and basic freedoms including freedom of speech,
press, religious persuasion, political conviction and assembly.

(4) Free activity of democratic parties and organizations must
be guaranteed in Germany with the right of freedom to decide
their own internal affairs, to conduct meetings and assembly,
to enjoy freedom of press and publication. >

(5) The existence of organizations inimical to democracy and
to the maintenance of peace must not be permitted on the ter-
ritory of Germany.

(6) Civil and political rights equal to all other German citizens
for participation in the building of peace-loving democratic Ger-
many must be made available to all former members of the
German army, including officers and generals, all former Nazis,
excluding those who are serving court sentences for commission
of crimes.

(7) Germany obligates itself not to enter into any kind of
coalition or military alliance directed against any power which
took part with its armed forces in the war against Germany.

Territory

The territory of Germany is defined by the borders established
by the provisions of the Potsdam conference of the Great Powers.

Economic Provisions

No kind of limitations are imposed on Germany as to develop-
ment of its peaceful economy, which must contribute to the
growth of the welfare of the German people.

Likewise, Germany will have no kind of limitation as regards
trade with other countries, navigation and access to world
markets.

Military Provisions

(1) Germany will be permitted to have its national armed
forces (land, air and sea) which are necessary for the defense
of the country.

(2) Germany is permitted to produce war materials and equip-
ment, the quantity and type of which must not exceed the
limitations required for the armed forces established for Ger-
many by the peace treaty.

Germany and the United Nations Organization

The governments concluding a peace treaty with Germany
will support the application of Germany for acceptance as @
member of the United Nations Organization. -+END

APRIL 1952

--- Page 28 ---
Last DP Family Sails

T'S A LONG WAY from the despairing ranks of forced
I laborers in wartime Germany to the White House rose
garden in Washington, but Josef Zylka, a 42-year-old
Pole, has traveled it.

Mr. Zylka, the 339,000th and the last European refugee
to be resettled in America since World War II under the
US program for displaced persons, his wife and two small
daughters were welcomed to the United States by Presi-
dent Truman in a ceremony April 14 on the lawn of the
rose garden.

From Washington, the Zylka family went to Chicago
where their sponsor has provided a home and a factory
job for Mr. Zylka.

Life for Josef Zylka has not been bright for the past
13 years, His wife, Ursula, and their two children, Ursula,
aged six, and Beate, aged three, have not had things very
pleasant either. The little girls have never had a home:
both were born in DP camps.

Josef's ill luck began in the first few weeks after Hitler
moved into Poland, At that time he was a soldier in
the Polish army. Taken prisoner by the Russians in Sep-
tember 1939, he was released three months later on an
exchange deal between the Russian and German armies
and returned to Poland.

N EARLY 1940, he was deported to Germany as. a forced

laborer. In Ohlau, near Breslau, he was compelled to
work 14 hours a day on dam construction. For three years
he remained there, existing on a starvation diet with
other Polish nationals and later with prisoners-of-war
from the Ukraine. In 1943 he was transferred to western
Germany where’ he worked in removing rubble from city
streets. He was in Frankfurt when the Allied armies oc-
cupied the city.

After the war, Josef moved to Berlin and lived in a
displaced persons’ camp. There he met and married

Ursula. They remained in Berlin until June 1948 when
the city’s camps were closed due to the Russian blockade
and DPs were evacuated by air to western Germany. The
Zylkas were resettled in another camp in the Kassel area
where Josef obtained work with the International Tracing
Service.

The Zylka family were among the last DPs to receive
a visa under the Polish quota, and Josef — his name start-
ing with a Z—was the last to board the transport
General Ballou which sailed April 2 from Bremerhaven
for the United States.

RIOR TO THE SAILING, special dockside ceremonies
were held. A message from US High Commissioner
John McCloy said:

“At the end of the last war there were left in Germany
and in other parts of Western Europe some millions of
displaced persons whose plight represented one of the
most heart-rending consequences of that war. The suffer-

‘ing which was their lot during the war and the despair

which they faced at its end appealed strongly to the
conscience of the Free World. While the greater number
of these uprooted people have returned to their own
countries, hundreds of thousands of others have come
as refugees from Soviet and satellite areas.

“The United States has joined with many other coun-
tries in alleviating the condition of these unfortunate people
through UNRRA and the IRO. The US Government fur-
nished $237,000,000 of the $406,000,000 used by the IRO.

“Besides voting these large sums for relief purposes,
the United States passed a Displaced Persons Act in 1948
to provide for the immigration to the United States of
large numbers of these displaced persons. Through the
effort of the US Displaced Persons Commission and the
many agencies and individuals who have cooperated with
it, my country has received almost 350,000 of the more
than 1,000,000 displaced persons
who have been resettled.

“On the occasion of the cere-
monies being held at Bremerhaven
in connection with the embarka-
tion of the last displaced person
to go to the United States under
that act, I wish to commend the
US Displaced Persons Commission
and its European coordinator,
Mr. Robert J. Corkery, for the

The Zylka family poses with Mrs.
Charlotta Mauch, left, of the US
Displaced Persons Commission's
public relations office, prior to their
departure for the United States.
Mr. Zylka holds Beate. Ursula is
at her father's right. Mrs. Zylka is
at extreme right. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
efficient completion of a very heavy and important
task.”

AMUEL REBER, then director of HICOG‘s Office of
Political Affairs (now assistant US high commissioner),
declared that, in marking the end of the resettlement
program, “it is gratifying to note the help of the many
organizations which contributed so much to its success.
Almost all the states in the Union created DP committees to
which were named some of their most prominent citizens.
"Some 25 voluntary societies, sponsored by church and
other organizations, made a major effort in securing assur-
ances of help from residents of the United States to
guarantee the proper reception and placement of the
DPs when they arrived. They also gave invaluable assist-
ance in selecting and processing the immigrants.

“Through mandatory budgets German public funds in
large amounts were made available for care and mainte-
nance and other costs incident to the DP program ‘in
Germany. The German Government, through the minister
of refugees, Dr. Hans Lukaschek, with whom my office
maintains the closest relations on these matters, has al-
ways furnished full and friendly cooperation.

“Through these combined efforts more than 300,000
persons have found their hopes realized in the attainment
of a new life in the United States. Americans have a
peculiarly sympathetic feeling for persecuted people.
From the very beginning of our history those coming to
the shores of our country were usually fleeing from per-
secution of mind or body.

“In succeeding waves there came to the United States
many persons whose liberality of thought and spirit marked
them for persecution in their native lands. Thus, our
country has constantly gained through the infusion of
new life and spirit and the older countries from which
the migrants came have just as surely lost thereby.

“To Josef Zylka and his family I can assure a sym-
pathetic reception in the United States, not only by the

more than 300,000 of their fellow DPs who have preceded
them, but also by the millions of Americans who are
descendants of earlier immigrants who frequently came
as political refugees just like the Zylkas.

“The new surroundings will, undoubtedly, seem strange
at first. There will be no need for identity documents.
They will not have to register with the police. They will
be able to travel to all of the 48 states without the neces-
sity of obtaining passports. They will not need to fear
the political policeman coming in the dead of night to
take one of them away, perhaps never to be heard from
again..."

N HIS REMARKS, Mr. Corkery declared, ‘The record
of the United States Government and the American
people in extending aid to the unfortunate of the world
—the displaced by war, the refugees from political or
religious persecution or simply the immigrant seeking
freedom and opportunity — is a proud one. Internationally
and nationally, America has given full realization to the
words and the spirit of the inscription on the base of
the Statue of Liberty in New York harbor:
““Give me your tired, your poor,
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free
The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.
Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me,
I lift my lamp beside the golden door!’"

Of the 339,000 displaced persons made homeless as a
result of World War II who have been provided resettle-
ment opportunities in the United States under the US-
sponsored program, a total of 315,000 from Germany,
Austria and Italy were processed by the US Displaced
Persons Commission and issued visas prior to the expira-
tion date of the program Dec. 31, 1951.

Although the DP program expired the last of the year,
the German ethnic and orphan programs continued through ~
April 1952. +ENDS@

Model House Presented to Technical University

An American model house, bought from the United
States and exhibited at the Berlin Industrial Exposition
in October 1950, was presented to the College of Con-
struction Engineering, Berlin Technical University, for use
as an athletic clubhouse for students of the university and
of other schools in the Charlottenburg borough of Berlin.

The presentation was made March 25 at an informal
ceremony in the model house when Dr. Carl G. Anthon,
higher education adviser of Berlin Element, HICOG, gave
the keys to Prof. Wilhelm F, Fauner, dean of the College
of Construction Engineering. Attending the ceremony
also were:

James C. Flint, youth affairs adviser, BE-HICOG;
Christopher Legge, director of the US Information Center
in Berlin; Dr. Otto Ogrowski, director of the university's
Student House Union; Mrs. Ellen Schuetz and Mrs. Helene
Driessen of the Lette-Verein School; Kurt Heyman and
Klaus Meyer, university students.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Kitchen equipment from the model house was pre-
sented to the Department of Home Economics of the Lette- |
Verein School for teaching and demonstration purposes. |
Mrs. Schuetz, teacher at the school who had studied in ~
the United States under the HICOG Exchanges Program,
used the model house during the exposition to instruct ~ ‘
students in the techniques of American home-making.*

% See ‘'Study-Time at Berlin Fair‘ in Information Bulletin, No-
vember 1950, page 97.

Present at ceremony were, I.-r., Mr. Flint, Mr. Legge, Mrs.
Schuetz, Mrs. Driessen, Dr. Ogrowski, Dr. Fauner, Dr.
Anthon, Mr. Heyman and Mr. Meyer. . (PRB BE-HICOG photo) ~

--- Page 30 ---
Humor from Soviet Zone

Refugees and visitors from East Germany bring to Free
Berlin the latest jokes being circulated among the people.
These are not published in the Soviet Zone. The following
collection has been made by the Public Relations Branch,
Berlin Element, HICOG.

It Fits

Comrade Crivotolkov, a worker in a Moscow auto-
mobile factory, lost all his cash in a card game and,
cursing wildly, left the saloon on Gorki Street.

“Crooks, cheats,” he cursed.

He felt the hand of a policeman on his shoulder.

“You are under arrest for insulting the Soviet Govern-
ment.”

All the worker's explanations were useless. The police-
man took him along. “No lame excuses, Comrade,” he
said, there is absolutely no doubt that you were talking
about the government.”

Next Train to Moscow

Pavel Pavlovich asked the information officer at
Kovno: "When does the next train leave for Moscow?”

“About 25 percent earlier than usual,” the officer replied.

“What does that mean?" Pavel inquired.

“Seventeen percent earlier than on schedule.”

“And at what time is the train due to leave on schedule?"

“Well, the train to Moscow always tries to leave 10
percent earlier than the Leningrad express."

In utter despair Pavel asked the officer to let him see
the train schedule, But the man shook his head. “Sorry,”
he answered, “I can only give you one that will be valid
in three years. You see, the schedule department has
voluntarily committed itself to overfulfill its production
quota by 300 percent.” :

He's Too Fast

East German President Wilhelm Pieck and his eager
assistant, Premier Otto Grotewohl, went for a walk in
the park surrounding Pieck’s mansion. Suddenly they saw
a body dangling from a rope fastened to a tree-limb.
They both rushed to save the man, who, they thought,
might still be alive.

“Look,” Otto exclaimed, “it's our activist, Adolf Hen-
necke!”

athlete was declared to be the winner. Grotewohl was
greatly astonished.

“What's the matter with our Russian friends?" he won-
dered. “Are they getting tired?”

“Heavens, no,” Ulbricht said, “but the referee is."

A Bright Future

East Germany's team of leaders, Pieck and Grotewohl,
were inspecting various institutions in the Soviet Zone.
They came to one of the big jails, talked to the director
and, on hearing a number of complaints on how little
could be done for the prisoners, Pieck pulled out his
wallet and handed the director a check for 200,000 marks.

In the same town they visited a kindergarten, also
heard a number of complaints by the manageress, and
Pieck again fingered out a check — this one for 25 marks.
Outside, Grotewohl asked .him why he gave so much to
the prison and so little to the children. “Well, Otto,"
Pieck replied, ‘‘you gotta think of the future. Or do you
think I'll ever become a child again?”

Nuts

New recruits for the People's Police were being muster-
ed in.

“Comrade Doctor," a stout man said, “I'm afraid I am
too fat for the police."

“President Pieck is a fat man, too," the doctor replied,
“but he is still the greatest teacher of our people. Fit for
service. Next."

“Comrade Doctor, I have flat feet,” the next one declared.

“Comrade Ulbricht has flat feet, too, but nonetheless
he is our deputy premier. Fit for service. Next."

“IT am shortsighted, Comrade Doctor,” the third one said.

“Our Comrade Grotewohl wears glasses, too, and he is
our deputy president. Fit for the service. Next."

The next one entered the room with a silly grin on his
face and whispered in the doctor's ear: ‘‘Now mind your
words, Comrade Doctor, I am nuts."

Oh, What a Pet!

A Soviet Zone delegation returned from China to Ber-
lin. “Our greatest pleasure," the head of the delegation
told his friends, ‘was when the Chinese leaders gave our
statesmen pet names in their own language. Our author,

Johannes R. Becher, was named Li-

“Well, I'll be darned,” Wilhelm
replied, “he's two years. ahead of
schedule again.”

include:

Too Much for Him
During the Communist World Youth
Festival in Berlin last summer Grote-
wohl and Ulbricht were watching the
sports contests. Eleven prizes had al-
teady been won by the Soviet sports-
men. But all of a sudden a Hungarian

Soviet Zone.
HO — Name

Abbreviations used in these jokes

FDJ— Communist youth organ-
— ization, distinguished at rallies by
the participants‘ blue shirts.

SED — Communist party in the

chain of retail stores, selling goods
much higher than ration prices.
MVD — Soviet secret police.

tai-pe after the great Chinese poet."
“Yeah, and what did they call me?"
Grotewohl inquired.
“Hoo-li-gan.”

It's Worth More to Us

A Leipzig businessman wanted to
open a new bank account, so he
went to the People’s Bank with
1,000 marks in his pocket. But he
had his doubts as to the bank's

state-operated

APRIL 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
solvency and called on the manager to find out its
capital assets.

“Well, the manager said, “our institute is backed by
the government.”

This did not seem to satisfy the businessman. “Just
between you and me," he said, “it might happen that the
government...”

The manager interrupted him. ‘Now listen, surely that
would be worth a measly 1,000 marks to you!”

It's a Long, Long Way to Siberia

The teacher asked little Peter how long it takes a
train to go from Siberia to Berlin. Peter thought a mo-
ment, and then replied: ‘From Berlin to Siberia it takes
six days, from Siberia to Berlin only three."

The teacher was surprised. ‘How did you figure that
out?” he asked,

“Well, when the train comes from Siberia it's empty
and doesn’t have to stop anywhere. But when it goes to
Siberia, it's loaded and stops many times on its way to
pick up more."

That's the Difference

“You know, Plumbie, I still wonder where the potato
bugs really came from.”

“Definitely not from the East — the vermin that come
from there will bite you in another place."

Clearance Sale
An SED functionary watched the milling crowds going
in and out of West Berlin shops during winter sales.
“Nice business, isn't it? a sales manager asked him.
The functionary smiled. “We don't have to go to so
much trouble. Thanks to the generous aid of our Russian
friends we are always sold out."

Progressive Bedrooms

The other day a friend of mine told me the HO state
shops were selling complete bedroom suites for only
100 marks. Of course I smiled at this little joke and as-
cribed it to my friend's overindulgence in HO liquor. But
my friend insisted that he spoke the truth. So I went
with him, and there it was, really: the bedroom furniture
consisted of two hammocks, a Stalin portrait and a
chamber pot.

Defense

An East Berlin court was holding a hearing on a man
charged with having spread jokes about Ulbricht, Pieck
and Grotewohl (Soviet Zone big three).

“The difference between you and the majority of the
German people is that the people know that the East
Zone government's policy serves peace and the inde-
pendence of Germany," the judge said.

“Sorry,” the defendant retorted, “but this joke is not
mine.”

The Iron Curtain
Gypsy fiddler Janosh tried to leave his beloved Hun-
gary on the sly, but fell into the hands of the Communist

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

border police. They gave him a good whacking for eight
successive days and then turned him loose. What else
should they do with a stupid gypsy? Janosh hoofed home-
ward and not far from his village met his band.

“Where on earth have you been, Janosh, what happen-
ed to you?” they wondered.

“Where do you think I have been? On a tour abroad,
of course.”

“A tour? But you are covered with black and blue spots.”

“Yes, friends, that happened when the Iron Curtain fell
on me.”

What Next?

Two East German farmers were holding a quiet dis-
cussion in the village inn. Heinrich said to Ernst: “What
do you think would come down that road if two of our
villagers died?”

Ernst: ‘Two human corpses.” .

Heinrich: “What would come down it if two SSD
(Soviet Zone Secret Police) men died?”

Ernst: “Two bundles of rags."

Heinrich: “And what would come if Grotewohl and Ul-
bricht died?’

Ernst: “A bright future for Germany.”

Flying Saucers

Jeff: ‘Well, I see they've reported more flying saucers
from the States.”

Mutt: ‘‘What?"

Jeff: “Flying saucers. I told you about them last year.”

Mutt: Too bad, but I can't remember...”

Jeff: ‘Heck, the flying saucers in the States. You know,
the discuses of Soviet athletes training for the next
Olympic Games."

Private Property

An MVD major is knocking a civilian's teeth in, on a
Moscow street, because the latter did not salute him.
What do you think the comrade did to the major? He did
not hit back or even appear greatly insulted. On the
contrary, he said quite modestly:

“You're lucky, Comrade, that my teeth are my private
property. Otherwise I would have sued you for damage
to people's property."

The Wrong Address

There was a comrade called Grotebricht. He wrote a
letter to a friend of his in Hamburg saying, “You, too,
must fight the warmongering imperialists in your country.
Push the guns and tanks into the sea."

He wrote another letter to his Soviet friend Ivan Urie-
vitch in Leningrad: “Dear Comrade, we rejoice with you
at the great freedom and social progress in your country.
‘We hope we'll have the same in ours, too, very shortly.”

It was too bad about Grotebricht, because he switched
the envelopes by mistake...

People’s-owned Industries

In former times nothing belonged to the worker and
he had everything. Today, in the lands within the Soviet
orbit, everything belongs to him and he has nothing! +END

APRIL 1952

--- Page 32 ---
Personnel Notes

General Hays Leaves for Austria

Departure from Germany of Maj. Gen. George P. Hays,
deputy high commissioner, and Chauncey G. Parker,
assistant high commissioner, and appointment of Samuel
Reber to succeed Mr, Parker were announced in April by
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy. General Hays
was recently appointed commanding general of the US
Forces in Austria, with headquarters in Salzburg, and Mr.
Parker returned to his position with the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development in New York City.

General Hays has been second in command to General
Lucius D. Clay, who was US military governor, and later
to Mr. McCloy during his four and a half years in Ger-
many. When General Clay returned to the United States
in May 1949, General Hays directed MG activities, until
Mr. McCloy assumed the offices of US military governor
and later US High Commissioner.

In his tour of duty in Germany, General Hays. acquir-
ed wide experience in negotiating with the Soviet oc-
cupation authorities as well as with German authorities.
In the Allied High Commission he was the US member
of the general committee which deals with all major
HICOM problems referred to it by the council and, in ad-
dition, was the US member of the security committee
which deals with general troop problems. He was the US
representative to the quadripartite defense talks regard-
ing Germany's role in Western defense,

General Hays entered the US Army during World
War I, being awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor
for heroism in the Second Battle of the Marne. During
World War II, he held important combat commands, in-

Maj. Gen. George P. Hays.
(PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

APRIL 1952

Chauncey G. Parker.
(PRD HICOG photo by Schoenborn)

cluding the Second Infantry Division artillery in Norman-
dy and later in Italy. He assumed the position of deputy
US military governor and commanding general of OMGUS
in August 1947.

Mr. Parker was named assistant US high commissioner
for operations in Germany Dec. 29, 1950. During mid-1949,
he served as an adviser to Mr. McCloy on the organiza-
tion of HICOG and the transfer of responsibility for US
civilian operations in Germany from the Department of
the Army to the Department of State. In his position as
assistant high commissioner, Mr. Parker has been most
recently concerned with planning for the evolution of
HICOG from its present status into that of an embassy.

Mr. Parker was appointed director of administration for
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment (World Bank) in 1947, and has been on loan to the
Department of State from that position. After combat
service in World War I, he was a member of the Army
of Occupation in Germany. In World War II he served
with the US Marine Corps, was deputy director of
Selective Service and later joined the Fleet Marine Force
in the Pacific.

After the war, he returned to the US and was appointed
chairman of the Navy Price Adjustment Board and vice-
chairman of the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board.
During 1946 and 1947, he was a special assistant to the
Secretary of the Navy.

Mr. Reber, who becomes assistant US high commissioner
for Germany as well as continuing in his position as
director of the Office of Political Affairs, is a career
diplomat. He has been one of High Commissioner McCloy’'s
principal advisers since becoming head of the Office of
Political Affairs in June 1950.

For the past several months, Mr. Reber has spent most
of his time working on the contractual agreements. His
appointment as assistant US high commissioner, Mr.
McCloy said, is in line with the organizational changes

X

Samuel Reber.
(PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
being made throughout HICOG in anticipation of the
conclusion of contractual agreements and the changeover
to embassy status.

Public Relations Chief Returns to US

Arthur Settel, chief of the Public Relations Branch of
HICOG’s Office of Public Affairs, has returned to the
United States following almost seven years of US public
relations and information work in Germany to become
chief of the Overseas Program Information and Promo-
tion for the Voice of America.

Mr. Settel, of Brooklyn, N.Y., has been closely associated
with the US postwar information program in Germany
and has had a share in shaping US policies in the infor-
mation field, first under the Office of Military Govern-
ment and later with the Office of the US High Com-
missioner.

With a background of newspaper work both in the
United States and abroad, Mr. Settel came to Germany
in 1946 to become chief of the Economic Information
Office under Ambassador William H. Draper, Jr., who
was then economic adviser to the US Military Governor.

After two years in that position, he joined the newly-
created Joint Export-Import Agency in Frankfurt and
organized and later directed its information program. In
November 1948, he was appointed deputy director of the
OMGUS Public Information office, and when the Depart-
ment of State took over administration of US activities
in Germany in the summer of 1949, he was named chief
of the Public Relations Division.

Mr. Settel’s wife and two children accompanied him to
New York.

Aviation Board Units in Frankfurt

American, British and French elements of the Civil
Aviation Board of the Allied High Commission, and the
Civil Aviation Division of HICOG recently completed a
transfer from Wiesbaden to Frankfurt.

Located in the former HICOG Headquarters Building
in Frankfurt, the three functional branches of the HICOG
Civil Aviation Division are Economics and Legal, headed
by M. J. Her; Operations and Training, L. C. Moore; and
Engineering, L. M. Hammond. Director of the British ele-
ment of CAB in Frankfurt is Peter W. Johnson while the
French element director is Col. J. Battistelli.

Pending return of civil aviation responsibility to the
German Federal Republic, the CAB and the respective
three operational Civil Aviation Divisions (US, British,
French) will continue to function as a civil air ministry
in the federal territory. The work of the CAB involves
development and implementation of civil aviation policy,

‘air carrier regulation, and provision of civil aviation
facilities and services, including aids to air navigation,
airport traffic control, aeronautical communications, and
direction of the eight international civil airports in West
Germany. .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

The CAB also provides representation for West Ger-
many in international civil aviation conferences, notably
meetings of the ICAO — the International Civil Aviation
Organization —an affiliate of the United Nations and
governmental in membership.

Agricultural Consultant in Hesse

Dr. Roy T. Reed, director of personnel with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture in Washington, D. C., has arrived in
Frankfurt to work for approximately 10 weeks in Hesse
and other parts of the Federal Republic as a visiting con-
sultant with the Public Affairs Section of the US Con-
sulate General.

Dr. Reed, who is also a well-known teacher of the
agricultural sciences, will especially study the organi-
zation and administration of agricultural vocational schools
in Hesse, and will confer with German agricultural of-
ficials and other experts in that field.

HICOG Expert Joins MSA

Einar Edwards, a HICOG labor-management expert in
Frankfurt for the past two years, has left for Vienna to
accept an appointment as labor adviser for the MSA
Special Mission to Austria.

During his stay in Germany, Mr. Edwards was con-
cerned with co-ordinating labor activities with the HICOG
reorientation and exchange of persons programs, and with
labor education and training programs. He was chief of
the Labor-Management Techniques Branch, Office of
Public Affairs.

A member of the CIO (Congress of Industrial Organi-
zation) for the past 15 years, Mr. Edwards served briefly
as a labor-management consultant to the Economic Co-
operation Administration in Washington before his ap-
Public Affairs.

He is a World War II veteran, having served in the
US Navy in the Pacific Theater from 1943 to 1945, Later
he was regional director of the Industrial Union of Marine
and Shipbuilding Workers of America (CIO).

Mr, Edwards is a graduate of Temple University, Phila-
delphia, Pa., and his home in the United States is in
Croydon, Pa.

US Police Official Tours Germany

W. P. Roach, chief of police in Waterbury, Conn., has
arrived in Germany to spend three months with members
of HICOG's public safety staff as well as to visit various
German police agencies for an exchange of professional
views and discussion of mutual problems and of methods
employed by police to reduce crime and maintain public
order.

Mr. Roach’'s visit is part of a program whereby leading
police officials of both the United States and the German
Federal Republic can meet personally and share each
other's experiences, thus creating and extending inter-
national understanding and cooperation. +END

APRIL 1952

--- Page 34 ---
Future
Lawyers

° By RICHARD J. JACKSON
Legal Adviser, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

HROUGHOUT THE POSTWAR YEARS, American

authorities in Germany have stressed the importance
of the role of the legal profession in the development and
preservation of democratic institutions,

The efforts of Military Government, and subsequently
of HICOG, to stimulate an appreciation among German
lawyers of their especial responsibilities in the develop-
ment of democracy have been devoted primarily to a
group of young law school graduates called referendare.

The referendare are future lawyers who have passed
their state examinations and are serving a two and one-
half to three-year training period corresponding to the
interneship of the medical profession, German youth who
have chosen law as a career are permitted to begin their
law studies upon graduation from high school. The course
requires three or more years of university study and then,
upon passing the state examination, the potential lawyer
is ready for the referendar period.

The referendare are under the supervision of the state
ministry of justice from which they receive a subsistence
allowance, Their training is in various branches of the law,
including the courts, prosecutors’ offices and in the offices
of private practitioners. A second state examination is
given at the end of the “interneship" and those who pass
it are eligible to embark on their professional careers.

= PRIMARY GOAL of American-sponsored programs

for the referendare has been to equip the future
lawyers with greater professional knowledge in those
fields of the law in which the interests of the individual
may be jeopardized by the state.

The first project initiated by Military Government was
the assignment of referendare to US courts and other legal
agencies for training—usually for three months —on
the same basis as they were assigned to German agencies.

Judge Marshall J. Herro discusses American court proce-
dures with “Referendare” Prinzing (left)and Meyer (right).

“Referendare’’ Prinzing, Schwab and Mayer (shown left
to right) studying American law during their three-month
training assignment to the United States Court in Stuttgart.

This program was inaugurated in Wuerttemberg-Baden in
September 1947 under an agreement between the state
Ministry of Justice and the Legal Division of the Office
of Military Government for Wuerttemberg-Baden, During
the four years it has functioned in this state, the US-
sponsored program has given training in American legal
principles and procedures to approximately 350 new
lawyers — almost half of all referendare in Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

In the spring of 1948, the first zone-wide project to
assist potential German lawyers was set up by US legal
experts, and it has continued since the advent of the
Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany in
October 1949, Referendare assigned to the US courts and
prosecutors’ offices have an opportunity to study and to
observe the application of both substantive and procedural
law in American courts, and to a limited extent, to gain
personal experience as assistant prosecutors and as
defense counsel.

One feature of American legal practice having a
particular appeal to the referendare is the relationship
of defense counsel to the court, since opportunity to
conduct an independent investigation and to interview
witnesses before trial is denied defense counsel under
German procedure. The appearance of prosecutor and
defense counsel on equal terms in American courts and
presentation of arguments before a judge who has no
previous knowledge of the case, is also foreign to the
student of German law.

'UNDS HAVE BEEN made available, too, to finance

five- to 10-day conferences to aid German authorities
in improving training of the referendare. The number of
participants range from 40 to 90, including both the trainees
and representatives of the ministries directing their “
terneship," and the conferences are becoming increasingly
popular. Lectures cover many fields, with emphasis on
constitutional and public law. Group discussions are an
important feature. Visiting US experts in the legal profes-
sion and HICOG legal advisers are often speakers,
although the program is primarily in charge of German
authorities and the majority of lecturers are leading
German professors, judges and lawyers. --END

in-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Economic Review

German Keonomy Retains Position

Prepared by Commercial Attache Section

OMPARATIVELY FEW STRESSES were evident in the West German economy during February except for
C increased deficits in the dollar balance of payments. The seasonal decline in production has not been
so sharp as usual and, due in part to increased output, the coal bottleneck has been relieved to an ap-
preciable extent. In certain sectors of the international market, prices of raw materials have shown a notice-
able tendency to drop, and in the great bulk of the sectors there has been no indication of a rise. Thus
industrialists and traders no longer think in terms of precautionary purchases, but, as in the consumer goods
area, are more concerned with keeping their stocks small.

Consumers are also displaying greater reluctancé to spend, as indicated by the substantial rise in bank
savings. Other forms of saving can be observed in the enlarged premium incomes of the life insurance
companies, in the building and loan associations and apparently even in hoarding. In addition, industrial
securities have been placed with greater ease of late. To some extent this increase of savings may be
attributed to the concessions in the income tax law which encourage savings. by confining most of the pro-
gressive features of the law to those portions of the income which are spent.*

* * * * *

Foreign Trade and Payments is that some German importers spaced
The volume of money in circulation This review is based on con- their buying after heavy September
has also been reduced through the tributions submitted by reports purchases because of softening world
appearance of cash surpluses in the Officers in the Office of Economic market prices.
public budgets; thus previous borrow- Affairs and the Office of Labor The Federal Republic's trade position
ings from central banks, necessary to Affairs, HICOG. with the European Payments Union area
meet expenditures in the past, can now still remained favorable, however, and
be repaid. These developments in the January exports of $240,000,000 against
demand picture do not appear to presage a deflationary imports of $199,000,000 from this area produced a positive
cycle, however, since the savings are being lent out as trade balance of $41,000,000. By way of comparison,
fast as they accrue, thereby allowing for a transfer to January 1951 imports from the EPU area were $213,000,000
purchasing power so necessary to the country's growth while exports were $148,000,000, a deficit of $65,000,000.
without the creation of additional credit in the economy. The over-all level of Germany's imports is presently

On the other hand, these developments tend to be above that prevailing at the time of Germany's worst
countered by the continued increase in the Salume of deficit with the EPU. Nevertheless, Germany's imports
short-term credits to business and private customers. from the EPU area are below the level prevailing in
Though payment dates of the income, corporation and the last quarter of 1950 and the first quarter of 1951 in
turnover taxes as well as the due dates of the immediate spite of the tremendous increase in exports to that area.
aid levy** seem to have great influence on the cyclical The full impact of liberalization may increase the im-
movements of short-term credits, the continuous upward port level, but there appears to be little danger of any
trend of credits to the private sector of the economy serious trade imbalance with the EPU area in the near
appears to be the result of long-term, steadily expanding future.
economic activity. The high level of imports sea nantonG yaaa area con-

Exports in January dropped to $314,000,000 from the tinued in January; imports at $84,000,000 and on a pay-
Deeanee figure of $378,000,000. Because of variations ments basis were the highest in recent years. With Ee
in the statistical compilations, however, no comparison financed imports less than $10,000,000 in January, the
canbe made between these figures. In all likelihood the expenditure of free dollars reached a postwar peak. Ex-
December figure represented only around $340,000,000 in ports to the dollar area on a payments basis were
actual exports, while the January figure is probably $27,000,000 in January —slightly above the on
somewhat understated. Viewed in this light, the January average of the 1951 last quarter but below the level o:
drop in exports did not vary significantly from the ex- the 1951 summer months. .
pected seasonal fluctuation. $ The monthly yar eae with the BU wat

i i A $10,400,000 after $43,300,01 was paid out of curren!
January, tose slightly to” $334000000° 8 ama pa ae earnings during the month to the Netherlands and Sweden
this rise may be attributed to the fact that the first in the form of accelerated payments of pre-EPU debts. |
imports of goods in the liberalized sector were begun eee peared Raided to the Feo ey a amnalat
before the end of the month; another contributing factor ive surplus of $53,700,000 at the end of January.

* Some danger may exist here that a portion of the savings thus In February, the surplus was $46,000,000 after final
stimulated may really be borrowings, since the tax advantages to be ‘payments of pre-EPU debts ($7,000,000 to the Nether-
gained by showing savings may exceed the cost of borrowing. lands and $1,900,000 to Sweden) were made from the

** This refers to the ‘‘Soforthilfeabgabe"’ paid in the form of a p : 2 A " ‘

ur] ivi month's current earnings. Thus: Germany's cumulative
aan Peta ereciterea we pee cane eee eee surplus at the end of February was $99,700,000.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 32 APRIL 1952 °

--- Page 36 ---
Gold and dollar reserves at the end of February de-
clined somewhat from January's position, though at a
lower rate than the decline during January.

Industry

The production index in January showed little change,
holding steady at 138. February also saw little fluctuation
in production in several of the key areas. Coal production
was able to maintain itself at close to January's postwar
peak for daily average production by registering approx-
imately 407,300 metric tons with the preliminary monthly
total at 10,200,000 tons. The substantial imports of
American coal have done much to ease the domestic coal
supply situation, as evident by decrease in black market
prices, the closing down of a number of drift mines, and
reports of increasing amounts of coke stocking.

Preliminary February figures show the production of
raw steel at 1,200,000 metric tons for the month and the
daily average production at 49,(C0 tons, this latter figure
topping the January postwar peak. In spite of this, iron
and steel are, at present. the biggest bottlenecks in in-
dustry now that the coal and electric power situation
has become somewhat less acute.

Orders in the industry booked in January increased
sharply after the December drop, with bookings of
734,000 tons in January, compared to 405,000 tons in
December, Compared to export bookings of 115,300 tons
in December, however, bookings in January were only
88,400 tons. The cumulative order book at the end of
December stood at 7,400,000 tons of which 715,400 tons
represented export orders.

Inquiries from abroad for German machinery, par-
ticularly machine tools, have shown a steady upward
trend. Remarkable improvements in the order position
have been made in precision tools, textile machinery and
the transmission (gears, etc.) industry.

Aluminum production in February was expected to be
about 5,700 tons, a slight increase above January. Though
February production of other non-ferrous metals remained
at the preceding month's level, the prices of non-ferrous
metals in Germany, following world market trends, have
shown a pronounced weakness. Primary copper prices
are about eight percent lower while secondary copper
and lead prices are about 15 percent lower.

Sales of chemicals eased off somewhat in February —
15 percent lower on the average and 35-40 percent in
the case of textile dyestuffs and assistants. At present,
leading textile manufacturers in Bavaria and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden are working on a five-day week basis and it is
expected that a depressed condition in the textile field
will last for another three months.

During February representatives of the Allied High
Commission (AHC), the Federal Government and the
steel industry agreed on a plan liberalizing the sale and
rebate system for marketing rolled steel products. Pre-
viously, purchases of rolled steel products directly from
the mill could be made only by those dealers who had
handled certain specified amounts of the desired products
during the previous year. As a consequence, only 10
dealers were qualified to buy all the rolled steel products
directly from the mill and no consumer could make
direct purchases.

Labor Market Developments

The seasonal turning point in winter unemployment was
realized with an improvement in the weather toward the
end of February. After rising by 68,000 during the first
part of February, registered unemployment in the Federal
Republic declined, if only slightly, by 1,000 during the
latter half of the month to a total of 1,893,000.

The revival of the building season occurred only shortly
before the unemployment count was conducted. Because
of the unusually late start in the building season, which

APRIL 1952

33

began in early January last year, unemployment in
Western Germany at the end of February 1952, was ap-
proximately 231,000 higher than in February 1951. The
unemployment rates for the two periods in terms of the
wage and salary-earning labor force were 11.6 percent
and 10.5 percent, respectively.

The recession in the textile, clothing and leather trades
was partly responsible for this development, as is in-
dicated by a smaller decrease in female unemployment
between December 1951, and February 1952, than in the
corresponding period a year ago.

Fearing a repetition of last year’s setback following
the overoptimistic post-Korean anticipations, producers
and distributors are now proceeding more cautiously.
The delay in building activity, as well as the inclement
weather, has adversely affected related branches in the
investment goods industries, particularly such construc-
tion materials as stones and earths. Comparative stabil-
ity of employment prevails in the other manufacturing
branches which are more immune to seasonal influences.

Union Wage Policy

The wage policy of unions affiliated with the German
Trade Union Federation (DGB) will be guided mainly
by the extent of labor's share in the national product
rather than by the wage-price relationship. Formal affir-
mation of this policy, which has been in the making for
some time, was announced on Feb. 18 in a DGB memo-
randum asserting that the national product has expand-
ed greatly in recent years and that this progress was
due to the sharp rise in productivity. The DGB held
that therefore a larger proportion of national income
should go into wages, salaries and pensions. They
recommended that efforts be made through appropriate
investment planning to enlarge even further to size of
the national product on which living standards basically
depend.

A rebuttal to the DGB memorandum was published on
Feb. 20 by the Federation of German Employer's Asso-
ciations (BDA) which stated that: (a) the official con-
sumer price index would be affected only slightly by a
correction in its shortcomings; (b) the maladjustment
between wages and prices at the time of currency
reform was natural and not an artificial relationship,
and it accurately reflected the states of economic devel-
opment at that time; (c) the income of employed per-
sons as well as the “broad masses” had risen uninter-
tuptedly by 45 percent since June 1948 and by 15
percent since Korea; and (d) wage data are only avail-
able for industry, and the strongest union wage demands
have been made for industrial employees.

Collective Bargaining

Wage increases ranging between 10 and 14 percent
were obtained by 575,000 farm workers as negotiations
proceeded in most western German states. Direct agree-
ments through collective bargaining were reached in
Hesse, Lower Saxony and the Rhineland-Palatinate
while voluntary arbitration in Bavaria and North Rhine-
Westphalia was required after unsuccessful negotiations
between the farm employers associations and the Agri-
culture and Forestry Union. Awards granting increases
of 12 percent on the average were accepted by the con-
tracting parties.

In consonance with the general trend toward extend-
ing the minimum duration of collective contracts, all
these agreements will be effective at least until the
close of 1952. Pointing to the union's objective of nar-
rowing the gap between farm and industrial wages, two
agreements permit termination before the normal date
if gross hourly wages of industrial workers in the re-
spective states rise above a fixed point.

Approximately 50,000 salaried employees engaged in
wholesale and export trade in Wuerttemberg-Baden and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern received a five percent pay
boost. Negotiations for a wage raise for manual workers
in these branches are still pending.

Food and Feed Supply Position

Throughout February supplies of all foodstuffs were
adequate. Reserves of milo corn, however, were low as
a result of continued heavy purchases by farmers who,
because of the price differential, prefer milo to other,
higher-priced fodder grains. For this reason, the Federal
Government has allocated to date in this fiscal year *
approximately $10,000,000 free dollars for the purchase
of US milo corn. Total free dollar allocations for food
were, as of the end of February, $113,000,000.

Present stocks plus expected deliveries and the import
arrivals of bread grains and sugar will be adequate to
secure the supply position through the next harvest.

Legislation

Only one of the numerous ordinances affecting agri-
culture which were issued in February is of more than
routine interest. This exception is Price Regulation 9/52,
establishing new prices for lime fertilizers. On the aver-
age, prices have been increased about 10 percent, mainly
to compensate for increased freight rates. The ordinance
does not apply in Hesse and southern Germany, where
similar state legislation prevails.

The most important legislative development in February
was the completion of initial Bundesrat (Federal Council)
action on the long discussed land consolidation law. No
less than 92 amendments were attached to the draft law,
which now goes to the Bundestag (Federal Assembly);
observers predict that many of the amendments which
reflect local and required interests, will be eliminated.
Nevertheless, further considerable delay is in prospect.

Fertilizer, Crop and Livestock Situation ‘

Fertilizer sales during July-December, 1951, were con-
siderably above those for the corresponding period in
1950. Lime sales were up 41 percent, potash 15 percent,
phosphates 14 percent and nitrogen five percent. This
was partly due to purchase in anticipation of freight
rate increases (introduced Jan. 1), but total 1951/52 con-
sumption will no doubt surpass that of 1950/51.

Hoof and mouth disease incidence declined further,
dropping by mid-January to 21,017 farms — against 51,264
in mid-November— and gradually shifting to southern
Germany.

Total 1951 tobacco production is estimated at 25,000
tons, 25 percent below 1950, Hops production was 12,200
tons, up 29 percent from the preceding year. Total vege-
table production (excluding home gardens and green-
houses) was 1,100,000 tons — 22 percent below 1950. The
lower vegetable crop was due largely to reduced acreage.

West Berlin

Output continued to decrease in January as the index
of industrial production** estimated from manufacturer's
current deliveries, fell to 41 percent of 1936, its lowest
level since July 1951. The decrease was apparently due in
large part to the normal fluctuations in deliveries of
the two largest industry groups, electrical and mechanical,
engineering, and also to seasonal decline in clothing and
in the manufacture of cosmetics (which is included
statistically as part of the chemical industry). The index
for December stood at 47 percent of the 1936 level, while
the highest point of 1951 was registered in November
when the index reached 51.

The total value of industrial deliveries*** of major

- enterprises — those with 10 or more employees — was

*

%* The fiscal year in the Federal Republic begins on April 1.
** Not adjusted for changes in inventories, Excludes food and
stimulants, building, and electrical power and gas production.
*%* Includes food and stimulants, but excludes building,
electric power and gas production.

and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

DM 202,400,000 in January as compared with DM 221,300,000
the preceding month. The difference of DM 19,000,000
represented a decrease of 16 percent after adjustment for
the number of working days in each month. Total reg-
istered employment of 165,000 in these same enterprises,
however, showed only a negligible change as compared
with December. A considerable number of home workers
and subcontractors, whose employment fluctuates greatly
with seasonal changes, is not included in these data
compiled by the Berlin Statistical Office.

An examination of industrial statistics for January
emphasizes another point of interest which has been
evident for more than a year: several small industry
groups, notably paper processing and woodworking, have
been slowly but steadily diminishing in both employment
and output value, This fact is not reflected to any ap-
preciable extent in general indices of industrial activity
because these groups account for such a small percentage
of total production value in the city, or, in the case of
woodworking, many enterprises are of a handicraft nature
and employ less than 10 persons.

The production index for woodworking was 35 in
January 1951, compared with 28 in January 1952. The
comparable figures for paper processing were 41.and 33.
Major firms in the two groups combined employed about
5,200 persons at the end of January 1952. This gradual
decline of certain small industries is believed to be due
to a combination of circumstances which weaken the
competitive position of these industries. vis-a-vis West
German products. The decline of these groups may
reflect structural changes in the city's economy which,
to a certain extent, are both necessary and desirable.
These decreases in woodworking and paper processing
have been more than balanced, of course, by improved
levels of activity in most of the city’s industries.

Information on industrial employment during February
is not yet available; however, total registered employ-
ment of West Berlin residents (including self-employed)
showed only small changes during the month. According
to the city labor offices, the number of gainfully employ-
ed at the end of the month was approximately 894,000,
while registered unemployment was 280,000, or about
24 percent of the labor force. During the month, the
number of workers on short-time decreased from 15,500 to
14,800, while the number of enterprises operating on
reduced-time schedules decreased from 795 to 744.

It should be noted that official labor market data count
as fully employed some 35,000 persons engaged in
GARIOA work relief activities. West Berlin residents
employed in the Soviet Sector of Berlin are also included
in these statistics, so that they do not always accurately
reflect developments in the West Berlin labor market.

Trade with Western Germany and Foreign Countries
Shipments from West Berlin to West German and for-
eign buyers represented a total value of DM 105,500,000
during January, according to the Federal Statistical Of-
fice in Wiesbaden. Receipts or goods from foreign areas
and Western Germany totaled DM 225,700,000.*
Preliminary estimates for 1951 indicate that the city
concluded the year with a balance of payments deficit
of DM 1,400,000,000. This was financed chiefly through
counterpart aid for the recovery programs and Federal
Republic budgetary assistance. The external balance of
payments deficit for 1950 was DM 1,300,000,000. 1951,
however, saw a sizable increase in the total value of
commodity trade and services. Receipts of goods and
services increased from DM 2,600,000,000 to an estimated
DM 3,500,000,000, while shipments of goods and services
rose from DM 1,300,000,000 to DM 2,100,000,000. -+-END

* The official figures compiled by the Federal Statistical Office do_
not include the large volume of commercial parcel post traffic between
Berlin and outside areas.

APRIL 1952

--- Page 38 ---
In and Around Germany

TB Seal Sale Success

The first German-American campaign for the sale of
anti-tuberculosis seals in Germany resulted in the raising
of $1,437.35 and DM 7,964.65 ($1,895.58), a total of
$3,332.93. Both dollar and Deutsche mark receipts will
be used in the anti-tuberculosis campaign carried out in
West Germany by the Zentralkomitee zur Bekaempfung
der Tuberkulose (Central Committee for the Fight against
Tuberculosis) and the state tuberculosis associations.

The project, patterned after the annual Christmas seal
campaign in the United States, was sponsored by the
HICOG Public Health staff and the Zentralkomitee.
Through the cooperation of the National Tuberculosis
Association of the US, American seals were furnished for
sale to both Germans and Americans in conjunction with
German seals. Both were distributed by HICOG public
health officials to the German-American clubs, which
sponsored sales in the US Zone. Berlin sales were
handled by the HICOG-sponsored Berlin Tuberculosis
Association and the Allied Women's Club.

Summer Courses in Germany

Eighteen German universities and colleges are offering
special short-term summer courses to foreign nationals
this year. Varying from two to four weeks, most of the
courses will feature language instruction and lectures
on German history, culture and literature.

At Bonn University, there will be a course offered
in political science, and at Nuremberg one in industrial
human relations. The Free University of Berlin's summer
school will include a course on “The Problem of Free-
dom in Berlin,"

Charges for the summer sessions range up to a maxi-
mum of DM 250 ($60) for a four-week course, including
board, At the Fridtjof Nansen Institute at Goettingen,
vacations for foreign students in Germany will also be
arranged,

German railroads will grant a reduction in fares for
the foreign students from the border to their university
site and return, Arrangements are handled by Deutscher
Akademischer Austauschdienst, Bonn.

DDT Effective against Typhus in Europe

US Army tests in Europe to determine the effectiveness
of DDT against body lice which transmit typhus fever,
have proved that an outbreak of the disease on this
continent could quickly be brought under control with
the Army’s insecticide. The tests were prompted by
reports that lice infecting North Korean and Chinese
prisoners of war are not killed by DDT.

Maj. Gen. Guy B. Denit, EUCOM chief surgeon, stated
that the European variety of typhus-carrying body lice
Was found to be completely susceptible to the insecticide.
The tests were conducted by Army researchers at the

APRIL 1952

4th Medical Field Laboratory in Heidelberg, working
under the direction of Lt. Col. Ralph W. Bunn, medical
entomologist.

Specimens of the human body louse were obtained
from vagrants in Berlin and Frankfurt through’ the co-
operation of German authorities. The specimens were fed
twice daily on human volunteers until a sufficient number
had been reared for testing purposes. Matured lice were
dusted with a normal dosage of DDT powder. Most died
within 24 hours and all were dead within 48 hours.

DDT is a white, crystalline, synthetic substance which
is usually used in powder form. It was first adopted dur-
ing World War II as a personal insecticide by the US
Army Medical Service. General Denit pointed out that
until it was developed, the continent of Europe was
periodically ravaged by epidemics of typhus fever. The
most severe and widespread outbreak in modern times
began in Serbia in 1915 during World War I and raged
through the Balkan states, Poland and parts of Russia
for six years.

Typhus cases did not appear again in great numbers
in Europe until 1943 when about 1,400 cases of louse-
born fever occurred among the civilian population of
Naples. The typhus rate was also high in Yugoslavia,
Greece, Spain and Bulgaria at that time. Because of the
effectiveness of DDT, severe epidemics have not occurred
in Europe following World War II although, as an after-
math of the war, some cases were reported in Norway,
Holland and Belgium; and in larger numbers in Germany,

West Berlin's Exports Doubled

Exports from West Berlin more than doubled during
1951, increasing in value from a total of DM 97,000,000
($23,086,000) in 1950 to more than DM _ 234,000,000
($55,692,000) at the end of last year, according to a recent
survey by the Economic Affairs Division, Berlin Element,
HICOG, From the second half of 1949 until the second
half of 1951, the value of exports from West Berlin rose
from DM 18,000,000 to DM 133,000,000, the survey indicates.

Parker Watkins, director of the children's choir of Berlin's
US Information Center, leads nearly 100 American and
German youngsters in special choral program at meeting
of Berlin Parent-Teacher Association. Children sang
Negro spirituals, other numbers. German participants are
members of children’s choir founded by Mr. Watkins,
who is in Germany on leave from the Hall-Johnson choir.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 39 ---
Operation of the Education Service Center* in Berlin
was transferred from American supervision to the City of
Berlin at a ceremony April 8 when Dr. Harry B. Wyman,
retiring chief of the General Education Section, Berlin

Element, HICOG, presented a check for DM 14,993
($3,568) to Senator Joachim Tiburtius, head of Berlin's
Education Department. The check covered operation of
the center for three months. The center has Berlin's
largest single open-shelf library of educational material,
an extensive collection of journals, a film and music
library, Shown above are (left to right): Dr. Wilhelm
Richter, director of the Berlin Teachers Training College,
Senator Tiburtius and Dr. Wyman. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

Topping the list of reasons given for the increase in
exports is the re-establishment of Berlin's reputation as
a producer of high quality goods for sale on the world's
markets, Foreign visitors at the 1950 and 1951 Berlin
Industrial Expositions, supplementing aggressive and far-
reaching sales campaigns undertaken by the Berlin
Marketing Council (BAO), have helped to awaken a
realization abroad that West Berlin is once again able
to compete on quality, price and delivery terms.

The export gains have been shared by all West Berlin
industries. Its electrical industry more than doubled its
sales to foreign countries in 1951, boosting total exports
from DM 44,000,000 at the end of 1950 to DM 91,000,000
by the close of 1951, This figure represents well over
one third of the 1951 export total.

Berlin's machine and machine tool industry, which
accounted for almost a quarter of the exports, showed
an increase of 237 percent, rising from DM 18,000,000 in
1950 to more than DM 61,000,000 in 1951.

Other groups of large industries, with the percentage
increases they scored during 1951, were the chemical,
86 percent; mechanics and optics, 94 percent; iron, steel
and hardware, 157 percent; textile and clothing, 105 per-
cent. ‘Most astonishing’’ increases, according to the
survey, were registered by the film industry, where ex-
ports rose from a total value of DM 5,000 to DM 231,000
and the food industry, which exported products worth
almost DM 2,500,000 in 1951, compared to only DM 177,000
in 1950.

Products of West Berlin’s industry were shipped last
year to nearly every country in the free world. Berlin's

* See ‘Education Service Center’ by Lucile Allard, in Informa-
tion Bulletin, No. 166, July 26, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

best customer was Sweden, which purchased goods worth
DM23,000,000, followed by Great Britain with DM 22,000,000,
The Netherlands with DM 14,000,000 and Italy, Switzer-
land and Austria in that order. Almost 30 percent of .
West Berlin's exports went overseas in 1951. The United
States led overseas buyers with DM 8,000,000. Among
other large purchasers were Argentina, Brazil and Australia,
Radio Editors to US

Three leading editors of the Munich, Stuttgart and
Southwest radio stations left Frankfurt March 26 for a ©
three months’ visit to the United States under HICOG's
Exchanges Program.

The group includes Eberhard Heizmann of Munich,
political editor of Bayerischer Rundfunk (Radio Munich);
Werner Mertes of Stuttgart, head of the economics depart-
ment of Sueddeutscher Rundfunk (Radio Stuttgart); and
Dr. Karl Gustay Wingenroth of Baden-Baden, deputy
chief editor of the Sued-West Funk (Southwest Radio).

Their visit will highlight the use of radio and television —
in the US as a community service and educational
medium. In this study, they will acquaint themselves
with the American way of life and thinking by observing ©
such institutions as radio, press and television, the
judicial system, schools and universities, federal and
municipal government, theater, music and the arts, and ‘
other fields. The group will also study radio and tele-
vision techniques and programming as they. contribute
to educational and public service.

bese if

Berlin Campaigns against Trashy Reading

Special laws and police ordinances are expected to
protect Berlin youth against “trashy” reading in the
future, Dr. Joachim Tiburtius, Berlin Senator for Educa-

patency tse

Berlin's Lone Troop No. 7, Girl Scouts of America,
celebrated 40th anniversary of organization's founding
March 14 with an international party including represen-
tatives of German Girl Scout troops in Berlin, British
Girl Guides and daughters of Allied officials stationed 1m
Berlin. (US Army photo)

--- Page 40 ---
tion, recently told a press conference. The campaign
against undesirable publications will be aimed particularly
against smutty and vulgar literature, crime and “Wild
West" stories which emphasize killings and violence,
and politically dangerous literature such as the type
dealing sympathetically with former (or living) Nazis
and their careers,

Noting that the Berlin criminal code and the police
ordinances already contain clauses covering certain
phases of the problem of dangerous literature, Dr. Ti-
burtius said that a special branch court will be set up
in the Berlin State Court to deal with cases arising in
the future.

He also stressed the necessity of “'self-control’ on the
part of publishers and wholesale distributors as a key
element in the cleanup campaign. This “self-control’’’ he
said, could be modelled after the techniques employed
by the West German Film Self-Control Board.

Regarding measures to guard youth against immoral
literature in the Federal Republic, Dr. Tiburtius revealed
that the Federal Government has had a special law under
discussion since December. If it is passed, he predicted
it will also be made applicable in Berlin. Part of the law
indexes books, magazines and other literature which can
neither be exhibited nor sold to youths.

McCloy Residence Derequisitioned

US High Commissioner John J. Mc Cloy's residence in
Bad Homburg, known as Haus im Wald, has been dereq-
uisitioned and returned to the German owner, officials
of the Frankfurt Military Post real estate office have
announced.

Action was taken to return the 21-room house and
surrounding park with the full approval of Mr. McCloy
and in accordance with the current policy of derequisi-
tioning German property when continued occupancy is
not essential to the mission of the US Forces.

First requisitioned in April of 1945, the buildings and
grounds were used successively by Generals Eisenhower,
McNarney, Huebner and Clay. Mr. McCloy made his
home there upon assuming the position of US High Com-
missioner for Germany.

Famous Art on Exhibit

The first postwar combined exhibition of German art
works rescued from salt mines by American troops at
the close of the last war opened April 6 at the Wies-
baden Neues Museum, formerly the American Central
Art Collecting Point. The exhibition will continue until
August.

The display, which is titled “One Millenium of Ger-
man Art," features 550 paintings and sculptures which
cover a period stretching from Charlemagne’s time to
the present. Included is a part of the famous Welfen
treasure, a collection of priceless containers for the bones
of saints, formerly owned by the Welfen dynasty.

Two hundred of the paintings were sent to the United
States following the war for safekeeping and attracted

APRIL 1952

37

Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner,
visited North Rhine-Westphalia city of Krefeld recently
to celebrate with members of Krefeld’s oldest women's
organization its 125th anniversary. Among guests of honor

were, I.-r., Dr. Bernhard Haun, city manager; Theodor
Plueckebaum, deputy mayor; Mrs. McCloy; Johannes
Hauser, mayor of Krefeld, and Mrs. Marianne Gatzke, of
Krefeld Women's Organization. (PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

large crowds during exhibitions there.* Those paintings
were returned to Germany in 1949 and entrusted to the
The only work of non-
German origin in the exhibition is the famous 3,500-year-
old bust of the Egyptian Queen Nofretete.

Hessian state for safekeeping.

Exchangees to Guide Soldier Tours

Several German exchangee students from Hesse, back
from their trips to the United States under the HICOG
Exchanges Program, are planning to supplement their
incomes by acting as guides to military personnel within
the European Command who want to tour Germany,

At a recent meeting of Hessian exchangees, US Air
Force representatives urged German students wishing to
earn extra money to hold lectures on Germany for Ameri-
can units stationed in EUCOM and to act as travel guides
for conducted tours of military personnel.

It was agreed that, in addition to the financial con-
sideration, such contacts would help to promote under-
standing between American soldiers and the German
population.

* See in Information Bulletin,

1950.

“Returned Masterpieces’’ January

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Erich Eberhard of German Federal Press Office in Bonn briefs
visiting American high school students from Frankfurt on
German system of government. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

US Students Visit Bonn Area

Forty-five members of the senior class of the American
High School in Frankfurt visited Bonn and Mehlem
April 1.

In the morning, the group was taken on tours of the
Bundeshaus and Federal Chancellery. The afternoon was
spent at HICOG headquarters in Mehlem.

The visit included a discussion, conducted by HICOG
and German officials, of the HICOG program and its
relation to the Federal Republic.

Labor Conference in’ May

The German Trade Union Federation will hold a con-
ference on youth problems in Stuttgart from May 16-18.
An estimated 250 delegates from throughout the Federal
Republic and Berlin, representing approximately 1,400,000
young workers, and guests from foreign labor organiza-
tions will discuss youth legislation, youth protection and
educational and cultural problems.

Workers to Spend Year in US

Twenty-five German skilled workers, eight from West
Berlin and 17 from Western Germany, left in February
for the United States for a full year of work and study
under a “pay-as-you-go” program sponsored by the Mu-
tual Security Agency to increase European productivity.

In the US, the German workers will hold regular jobs
in factories and shops, working full time at standard
wage scales. They will also be given opportunities to
observe American management and industrial techniques,
and will be encouraged to attend night classes to study
American government, industrial relations, economics
and other subjects.

Under the work-study program, a total of 2,000 tech-
nicians from Marshall Plan participating countries will
be enabled to spend one-year tours in the United States.
Four hundred of the 2,000 will be Germans.

Living costs, tuition fees and other normal expenses
in the US will be borne by program participants from

INFORMATION BULLETIN

their regular salaries. Costs of transportation to and from
the States are paid by the Marshall Plan ministry in
each country. Initial and emergency expenses, as well
as salaries of special advisers in the US, are paid by
the Mutual Security Agency.

During their year-long visits, participants will live in
dormitories at various American colleges and universities
and each will room with an American student. In most
cases they will work at their job specialties,

Land Reform Law Amended

The Allied High Commission has approved an amend-
ment to Law No. 34 (application of land reform legis-
lation to property of non-German nationals) which grants
non-German nationals whose nationality has been in
dispute one year to dispose of their excess land holdings,
The year of grace starts when the person's status is
determined.

Law No. 34, approved by the Allied High Commission,
provides that land owned by non-German nationals and
not previously subject to land reform legislation shall
be subject to such legislation in the same manner as

land owned by German nationals. No provision, however, ~

was made for persons whose claim to non-German
nationality was in dispute or in process of determination.

New Publishing Regulation

Military Government licenses are no longer required
for the publishing of books and other non-periodical
printed matter in the US Sector of Berlin, Similar orders
are in effect in the British and French Sectors.

Under the new regulation a general license authorizes ~
any person not otherwise prohibited by HICOG or Ger- ~
man legislation to publish books, posters, pamphlets, ©
printed music and other non-serial printed or otherwise ;

mechanically reproduced publications.
Allied Ordinance No, 501 (Control of written, printed

or inscribed matters) must be complied with and one ~
copy of each publication submitted to appropriate Allied ©

sector authorities.

a

The new general license does not affect current regu- a

lations concerning the publication of newspapers, peri-

odicals and other serial publications, for which an in- ~

dividual license is still required.

Maj. Gen. William H. Middleswart, chief of the Quarter-

master Division, European Command, chats with Mrs.

James T. Duke, Jr., wife of Major Duke, at vegetable

counter of Berlin Military Post commissary during tour
of quartermaster installations. At right is Sfc. James
W. Crazen, commissary steward. (US Army photo)

--- Page 42 ---
Continuation of West Berlin's school feeding program is
assured by check for DM 2,125,000 ($505,750) presented
by Cecil B. Lyon (right), director of Berlin Element, HICOG,

to Mayor Ernst Reuter. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

Funds for Berlin School Feeding

A check for DM 2,125,000 ($505,750), representing the
third installment of a US grant to finance the Berlin
School-Feeding Program during the 1951-52 school year,
was presented March 27 to Berlin city authorities by
officials of HICOG's Berlin Element Public Affairs Division.

Now in its fourth year, the US-financed School-Feeding
Program provides more than 68,000,000 hot noontime
lunches to an estimated 325,000 Berlin students in all
types of educational institutions during the school year.
A total of DM 8,500,000 ($2,023,000) has been allocated
for the program, to which is added DM _ 5,000,000
($1,190,000) set aside by the Berlin city government to
cover costs of administration, and of preparing and
distributing the food.

Berlin Element education officials report that “ex-
perience has shown that the School-Feeding Program not
only contributes to the general health of the students
but actually improves their classroom efficiency. In
many cases, it has meant the difference between extreme
hunger and adequate nourishment.”

Institutions benefiting under the program include
primary, secondary and vocational schools, as well as
universities and special institutions.

Neighborhood Councils Meet

Neighborhood citizens councils from six German states
and Berlin met in Hamelin recently while representatives
of councils in Hesse met in Giessen to discuss experi-
ences, mutual problems and plans for future activities.

The councils have sprung up throughout northern Ger-
many during the past two years and are made up of per-
sons living within a particular neighborhood or district
of a city. Through their own initiative they discuss and
solve problems such as traffic safety, improvement of
School conditions or securing better transportation serv-

APRIL 1952

ice. Voluntary contributions cover most of the essential
expenses incurred in holding and publicizing meetings
as usually no dues are charged or membership lists kept.

At the Hamelin conference, the councils agreed to ex-
change information through a monthly publication, Ruf
und Echo (Call and Echo), which has been financed for
a year by voluntary contributions.

The neighborhood councils are non-partisan as to poli-
tics and religion as well as in regard to economic interests.
The progress of these grass-roots groups is being followed
with friendly interest by HICOG Community Activities
workers.

Seven neighborhood groups are active in Berlin, six
in Bremen and 20 in Hamelin in addition to those scat-
tered throughout northern Germany. Leaders of the move-
ment have contacted numerous citizens’ committees, for-
ums and community councils in southern Germany.

US Documents Given Parliament

More than 40,000 US Government public documents,
part of the regular US and German Governments’ ex-
change of documents which was interrupted by the Nazi
and World War II period, have been presented to the
library of the German Federal Parliament.

Chauncey G, Parker, retiring assistant US high com-
missioner for Germany, presented the volumes to the
parliament in a brief ceremony March 20 in Bonn. Presi-
dent Hermann Ehlers accepted the documents. The Parlia-
ment Library Committee and other members of the Ger-
man legislative body were present, as were several of-
ficials of HICOG.

Since the establishment of the Federal Republic of
Germany, the United States and Germany have resumed
the exchange of documents, but the German Parliament
did not have US Government documents of the period
between 1933 and 1949. The volumes presented March 20
included all the material published during those yeacs.

The documents were published by the executive, legis-
lative and judicial branches of the US Government. They
deal with all aspects of life in the United States and

Retiring Assistant US High Commissioner Chauncey G.
Parker (right) and Bundestag President Hermann Ehlers
(left) examine some of the 40,000 US Government public
documents presented to the Federal Government by the
(PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

Unites States.

--- Page 43 ---
many, in addition, include comparative studies of prob-
lems in the countries of Europe, Latin America and other
areas of the world.

Youth Leaders Meet

Youth self-help home leaders in Wuerttemberg-Baden
recently held a state-wide congress to coordinate the
rehabilitation program for wandering, homeless and
refugee youth.

The conference attracted 150 persons, including 80 home
leaders presently working with young people in munici-
pally and privately supported homes and in other or-
ganizations,

The project was organized throughout Western Ger-

many after the war to aid youth between the ages of
14 and 25, who presented a major refugee problem. The
effort has been promoted by the Federal Working As-
sociation for Youth Self-Help with federal, local and
HICOG assistance.
: During the congress, held at Schmie, a small village
near Stuttgart, seven workshops dealt with problems of
the youth self-help program. Recommendations made
during workshop discussions and endorsed by the con-
gress included:

1, Youth should have more job opportunities.

2. An additional year should be added to the school
program, emphasizing vocational training.

3. State financial support should be provided for self-
help citizenship and home leadership training courses.

4. Encouragement and support should be given the
publication of home newspapers and house organs by
the young people.

One important feature was the emphasis given to
better vocational opportunities for girls. Leaders of girls’
homes recommended that girls be given more training
in handicrafts and be able to work at trades in certain
industries now open only for men, such as watchmaking.
They urged better wages for girls working in industry
and additional schooling, especially education for home-
making.

New Training Area in Bavaria

A former German army training area near Hohenfels
in northwestern Bavaria, and some adjoining territory,
has been turned over to US Forces in Germany for use
as a training site, The new training grounds for American
troops are located within the Nuremberg Military Post,
and cover 40,000 acres approximately 10 miles south of
Amberg.

The announcement from EUCOM headquarters in Hei-
delberg March 31 stated that US military authorities in
Germany accepted the area, following negotiations be-
tween representatives of the German Federal Govern-
ment, the Bavarian state government, EUCOM head-
quarters and the Office of the US High Commissioner for
Germany.

The new troop training area — now in process of be-
ing established — represents an extension to the west of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

Dr, Louis H. Bauer (left), consultant to the surgeon
general, US Air Force, and president-elect of the Ameri-
can Medical Association, is greeted by Brig. Gen. Wil-
liam H. Powell, Jr., USAFE air surgeon, on arrival at
Rhine-Main Air Base April 12, Dr. Bauer, accompanied by
General Powell, is touring Air Force installations in the
United Kingdom, North Africa and Europe and will at.end
council meeting in Brussels of the World Medical Associa-
tion, of which he is secretary-general, and a meeting of the
World Health Organization in Geneva. (USAFE photo)

the former Wehrmacht area, across farmland which is
not especially well suited for agricultural purposes. Small 4
units have already moved in, and larger units are to
follow,

To provide the training site for US Forces, the German
Federal Government relocated approxithately 3,300 per-
sons from the Hohenfels area.

Ruling Given on Property Liability

The US Court of Restitution Appeals, in a decision
which may affect many other restitution cases, has ruled
that the West German states which received former Nazi
Party property are liable for any debts against such
property,

The decision was handed down recently in a case in-
volving a house in Frankfurt which was taken by the
Nazis under forced sale for their local party headquarters
and later burned by them to destroy party documents
shortly before American troops entered the city. The ~
claiment, Julius Schoenmann, demanded not only return }
of the property — which was granted by a German ©
restitution court — but reimbursement for the damages.

Under an Allied Control Council directive, the title to '
property of the NSDAP and its affiliates was transferred 3
to the government of the state in which it exists. In
assuming ownership of the property, the state is also
liable for debts and claims against it, according to the ©
court. This is not a “personal liability," however, and ;
such debts can only be paid through the sale or profits ©
derived from other NSDAP property held by the respec- ;
tive state government up to the total value of such —
property.

In the Schoenmann case, the court ruled that the state
of Hesse must pay damages on the building. -++END —

ip etapa cite a

APRIL 1952

--- Page 44 ---
a

Calendar of Coming Events

May 1 — Bad Neuenahr (Hes): Festival of
Youth.

May 1— Cham (Bav): Downhill ski race,
little Arber.

May 1-4 — Wiesbaden (Hes): International
tennis tournament,

May 1-10 — Mannheim (WB): May amuse-
ment fair.

May 1-10 — Brakel (NRW): Homeland and
cultural week.

Early May — Schwetzingen (WB): 20Cth
anniversary of the Rococo theater.

Early May— Aachen (NRW): Spring festival.

May 2 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Cycle concert;
W. Schneiderhan, violin.

May 4 — Essen (NRW): Concert; Wolfgang
Schneiderhan, violin.

May 4 — Mittenwald (Bav): International
ski races.

May 4 — Wolfratshausen (Bav): Philatelic
societies of Bavaria.

May 4-5 — Bonn (NRW): Concert.

May 4-5 — Berlin: RIAS Orchestra, Ferenc
Fricsay, conductor.

May 4-5 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert, Lore
Fischer, alto.

May 4-11 — Stuttgart (WB):
modern music.

May 4-11 — Buendheim (LS): Spring fair;
folk and home festival.

May 5 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert, Christian Ferras, violin.

May 5 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert,
G, Wand, guest conductor,

May 5 — Freiburg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Cecilia Hansen, violin; Franz Kon-
withschny, guest conductor.

May 5 — Cologne (NRW): Oratorio by
Debussy; Ernest Ansermet, conductor.
May 5 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert, Henny
Wolff, soprano, Julius Patzak, baritone.
May 5 — Flensburg (SH): ,,Requiem" by

Verdi.

May 5 — Nuremberg (Bav): Concert, Nuovo
Quartetto Italiano.

May 5-6 — Bremen: Concert, Mozart's C-
minor Mass,

May 6 — Solingen (NRW): Concert, Branka
Musulin, piano. .

May 6 — Leverkusen (NRW): Concert,
Alfred Cortot, piano.

May 7 — Kassel (Hes): Concert, Ninth
Symphony by Beethoven.

May 7 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Concert,
Rosl Schmid, piano.

May 7-8 — Hanover (LS): Concert, Nuovo
Quartetto Italiano.

May 7-8 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert, Alfred Cortot, piano; G. L.
Jochum, conductor.

May 7-8 — Hamburg: Overseas Day.

May 8 — Munich (Bay): Concert; Nino
Sanzogno of Milan, conductor.

May 8 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Beet-
hoven's “Missa Solemnis.”’

May 8 — Nuremberg (Bav): Convention,
Southwest German music dealers.

May 9 — Krefeld (NRW): Beethoven's
“Missa Solemnis."'

May 9 — Rheydt (NRW): Concert, G. L.
Jochum, conductor,

May 10 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert; Alfred
Cortot, piano,

May 10 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert by
Bach Society.

Week of

APRIL 1952

May 1 to June 30, 1952

May 10 —- Muenchen-Gladbach
Beethoven's ‘‘Missa Solemnis."*

May 10 — Frankfurt: Congress, German
Post Engineers Association.

May 11 — Dortmund (NWR):
“The Seasons."

May 11 — Muenster (NRW): Beethoven's
“Missa Solemnis."*

(NRW):

Haydn's

May 11 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert,
Edwin Fischer, piano. ;
May 11:— Stuttgart (WB): Philharmonic

concert.

May 11 — Hanover (LS): Eilenriede motor-
cycle races, .

May 11 — Karlsruhe (WB): Summer day
procession.

May 11 — Seckenheim (WB): Horse races"
May 11-12 — Brunswick (LS): Beethoven's
Violin: Concert and Ninth Symphony.
May 11-12 — Bremen: Winterthur Cham-
ber Orchestra; Edwin Fischer, Enrico

Mainardi, soloists.

May 11-12 — Hamburg: Northwest Ger-
man Broadcasting Symphony Orchestra;
H. Roloff, piano; H. Schmidt-Isserstedt,
conductor.

May 11-30 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Interna-
tional race for sports and touring cars.

May 12 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony con-
cert Otto Matzerath, conductor.

May 12 — Luebeck (SH): Winterthur Cham-

ber Orchestra; Edwin Fischer, Enrico
Mainardi, soloists.
May 12 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert,

Eduard Erdmann, piano.

May 13 — Bad Nenndorf (NRW): Haydn's
“The Seasons."

May 14 — Aachen (NRW): Concert.

May 14—Bremen: Concert, Nuovo Quar-
tetto Italiano.

May 14 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Con-
cert, Freund-Quartett.

May 14-15 — Munich (Bav): Concert, Han-
del's “The Messiah."

May 14-15 — Freiburg (WB): Concert, con-
temporary music.

May 15 — Gladbeck (NRW): Oratorio,
Schumann's ‘Das Paradies und die Peri.”’

May 16 — Nuremberg (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; H. Reutter, H. Schroeter, piano.

May 17-20 — Bad Lauterberg (LS): Folk
festival.

May 18 — Hockenheim (Hes): International
motor cycle races.

May 18-19 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert, D, Fischer-Dieskau, baritone; Jos.
Keilberth, conductor.

May 18-22 — Gross-Gerau (Hes): Spring
mart; homeland play at city hall.

May 18-25 — Frankfurt (Hes): Association
for Chemical Apparatus; 25th Inter-
national Congress for Industrial Chemistry.

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia,
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

Al

May 18-27 — Heidelberg
amusement fair.

May 18-27 — Freiburg (WB): Spring fair.

May 19 — Flensburg (SH): Concert; Margot
Pinter, piano; Heinrich Steiner, conductor.

May 19 — Nuremberg (Bav): Concert;
Alfred Cortot, piano.

May 19-20 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert, Georg Wand, conductor,

May 19-20 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert, Beethoven's Ninth Symphony.
May 20-25 — Munich (Bav): 42nd traveling

exhibit of German Agricultural Society.

May 21-June 2 — Aachen (NRW): German
Borderland Exhibition.

May 22 — Aachen (NRW): Bestowal of
International Charlemange Prize of City
of Aachen.

May 22 — Bensberg (NRW): Folk festival
with children’s pageant.

May 22— Duesseldorf (NRW): International
exhibition of thoroughbred dogs.

May 22 — Harxheim (RP): Sand track motor
races.

May 22 — Hassloch (RP): Horse races.
May 22-23 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; Karl Boehm, conductor.
May 22-June 2 — Neukirchen (Bav): 500th

anniversary of pilgrimage.

May 23 — Weingarten (WB): Blutritt (Blood

(WB): Spring

Ride).

May 24—Rheydt (NRW): “‘Carmen Bu-
rana™ by Orff.

May 25 — Essen (NRW): Beethoven's Ninth
Symphony.

May 25 — Berlin: RIAS Orchestra; Ilse von
Alpenheim, piano; “Rudolf Albert, con-
ductor.

May 25 — Adenaw/Eifel (RP): International
Eifel races with international star races.

May 26 — Freiburg (WB): Symphony con-
cert, H. Dressel, conductor.

” May 26 — Cologne (NRW): Northwest Ger-

man Broadcasting Orchestra; Paul Badura-
Skoda, piano; Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

May 27-29 — Fulda (Hes): German Catho-
lic bishops’ conference.

May 27-31 — Bayreuth (Bav):
festival week.

May 28— Bottrop (NRW): Concert, Beet-
hoven's Ninth Symphony.

May 29— Muenster (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, Gerhard Puchelt, piano.

May 29 — Oberhausen (NRW): Concert,
Janacek; H. Steurer, piano.

May 30 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Beethoven's
Ninth Symphony; Carl Schuricht, guest
conductor.

May 30-June 2— Travemuende (SH): Whit-
suntide hockey tournament.

May 31-June 2 — Regen/Bav. Forest (Bav):
Whitsuntide sports festival.

May 31-June 2— Wiesbaden (Hes): 16th
International riding, jumping and driv-
ing tournament.

May 31-June 2—Kiedrich (Hes):
festival.

May-June — Nuremberg (Bav): Exhibition;
West German contemporary art.

May-Aug. — Tecklenburg (NRW): Open-
air plays in castle ruins.

May-Aug. — Oberdollendorf (NRW): Open-
air performances at Heisterbach ruins.
May-Sept. — Hamelin (NRW): Pied Piper

(rat catcher) plays.

Franconian

Spring

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
May-Sept. — Osterode/Harz (LS): 800th an-
niversary.

May-Sept. — Essen (NRW): 1,100th anniver-
sary.

May-Oct. — Kevelaer (NRW): Pilgrimages.

May-Oct.—Neviges (NRW): Pilgrimages to
Gracious Image of Ardenberg-Neviges
and to Kreuzberg and Marienberg shrines.

May-Oct. — Constance (SB): Exhibition of
antique paintings and qraphics.

May-Oct. — Rheydt (NRW): Horticulture
exposition.

May-Oct. — Landau (SB); Flower show.

JUNE

June 1 — Bad Friedrichshall (Bav): Salt
mine inspection.

June 1— Rees (NRW): Marksmen’s festival.

June 1 — Bogen (Bav): Candle procession
at the Bogenberg.

June 1 — Berlin: Avus races for sports and
racing cars.

June 1-2 — Bruchsal (WB): International
hockey tournament.

June 1-2 — Bad Harzburg
tournament.

June 1-2 — Bad Ems (Hes): German profes-
sional tennis championships.

June 1-2 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Riding
tournament.

June 1-2 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Convention,
Evangelical Educators’ Association.

June 1-2 — Schwaebisch Hall (WB): Open-
air performances, St. Michael's Cathedral.

June 1-2 — Berlin: Philharmonic concert;
Erich Kleiber, conductor.

June 1-2 — Schwaebisch Hall (WB): Histori-
cal salt boilers’ dance.

June 1-2 — Schwetzingen (WB): Whitsun-
tide fair.

June 1-2 — Rothenburg/Tauber (Bav): ‘'The

(LS): Tennis

Master Draught’ historic play and
“Shepherd's Dance."
June 1-2 — Hirschau (RP): Grand folk

festival with costume groups.

June 1-2 — Norderney (SH): Whitsuntide
homeland festival‘with costume groups.

June 1-3 — Berlin: ‘Green Week."

June 1-3 — Viersen (NRW): Markmen’'s
festival.

June 1-4 — Muenchen/Gladbach (NRW):
Marksmen's festival.

June 1-7 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Old
Muelheim Whitsuntide festival.

June 1-7 — Constance (SB): Annual con-
vention of Society of German Engineers.

June 1-8 — Bad Gandersheim (Bav): 1,100th
anniversary.

June 1-8 — Kitzingen (WB): Spring festival.

June 1-14— Amberg (Bav): Exhibition of
industry, trade and craft.

June 1-Aug. 30 — Feuchtwangen (Bav.):
Open-air performances in castle ruin.
June 1-Oct. 13— Wuerzburg (Bav): 1,200th
anniversary of “Franconia Sacra,’ ex-

hibit by Franconian artists.

June 2— Flensburg (SH): Special
hoven concert; Josef Keilberth,
ductor.

June 2— Unterhausen (WB): Cave of Fog
festival.

June 2—Hildesheim (LS): Traditional Whit-
suntide mart with costume groups.

June 2—Vaihingen (Bav): Maien Day, chil-
dren's and homeland festival.

June 2-3 — Ochsenfurth (Bav): Horse ride
to Wolfgang chapel, blessing of horses,

June 2-3 — Westkappeln (NRW): Traditio-
nal horse races.

June 2-4 — Leer (SH): Whitsuntide mart.

June 2-Sept. 30— Meppen (SH): Open-air
performances on sylvan stage.

June 3— Deidesheim (RP): Billy goat fes-
tival.

June 3 — Frankfurt (Hes): Waeldchestag;
grand folk festival,

Beet-
con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

June °-6 — Stuttgart (WB): Annual meet-
ing, Society of German Engineers,

June 3-7 — Berlin: Convention of Teachers
and Educators,

June 4-6 — Marburg (Hes): Convention, So-
ciety of Archaeologists.

June 4-6 — Baden-Baden (SB): Convention,
Society of German Automobile Industry.

June 4-7 — Adenav/Eifel (RP): International
Nurburgring star race.

June 5— Cologne (NRW): Northwest Ger-
man Broadcasting Orchestra, Josef Keil-
berth, conductor.

June 5—Rheydt (NRW): Concert, H. Roloff,
piano; G. L. Jochum, conductor.

June 5-8— Marburg (Hes): Convention, So-
ciety of German Ancient Philologists.
June 6 — Krefeld (NRW): Concert, Chris-
tian Ferras, violin; G.L. Jochum, con-

ductor. .

June 6-8 — Ludwigsburg (WB): International
riding and driving tournament.

June 6-8 — Stuttgart (WB): German ama-
teur boxing championships.

Early June — Heidelberg (WB): 20th row-

+ ing regatta.

Early June — Stuttgart (WB): International
rowing regatta. .

June 7 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Concert, Christian Ferras, violin; R. Hu-
bertus, conductor.

June 7 — Linnich (NRW): Traditional marks-
men's festival.

June 7-9 — Neheim/Huesten (NRW): Marks-
men's festival with pageant.

June 7-9 — Solingen (NRW): Marksmen’'s
festival.

June 7-15 — Fulda (Hes): St. Boniface week.

June 7-15 — Essen (NRW): Rally German
and foreign postal singing societies.

June 7-17 — Karlsruhe (WB): Spring festival.

June 7-22 — Wiedenbruck (NRW): 1,000th
anniversary.

June 8 — Trier (RP): Annual meeting of
Eifel Society.

June 8 — Verden/Aller (NRW): Inaugu-
ration of Cathedral.

June 8-9 — Berlin: RIAS Orchestra; Ferenc
Fricsay, conductor.

June 8-10 — Laubach (Hes): 400-year-old
homeland festival.

June 8-14 — Mainz (RP): Meeting, German
Librarians Association.

June 8-15 — Baden-Baden
national culture week:

June 8-10 — Salzgitter (LS): Marksmen’s
festival,

June 10 — Oberwesel
Christi procession.

June 12 — Fulda (Hes): Corpus Christi pro-
cession.

June 12 — Munich (Bav): Haydn's ‘The
Seasons.”

June 12 — Prien (SB): Candle procession
around the ‘‘Fraueninsel.""

June 13 — Wuppertal (NRW): Hindemith’s
“Requiem.”

June 13-15 — Birkenau (WB): 400th city-
hall anniversary.

June 13-15 — Travemuende (SH): German
Automobile Club international rally for
sports and touring cars.

June 13-16—Dinkelsbueh] (Bav): Children’s
feast, historical open-air performance.
June 13-18 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Annual

convention, Society of German Druggists.

June 14-15 — Regen (Bav): Rally German
singing societies; 100th anniversary.

June 14-16 — Bodenmais (Bav): Traditional
St. Benno folk festival.

June 14-24 — Schweinfurt (Bav): Traditional
folk festival.

June 15 — Kronach (Bav): “Sweden Sun-
day” in commemoration of the defense of
the town.

(SB): Inter-

(NRW): Corpus

42

June 15— Baden-Baden (SB): Grand avenue
illumination.

June 15 — Tuebingen (WB): Grand riding
tournament.

June 15 — Baden-Baden (SB): International
amateur dancing tournament.

June 15-16 — Stuttgart (WB): Convention,
Master Barbers Association.

June 15-16 — Ziegenhain (Hes): Historical
folk festival. 7

June 15-22 — Northeim (NRW): 700th anni-
versary.

June 15-Sept. 7 — Augsburg (Bav): Open-
air dramatic performances.

June 15-Sept. 30 — Schliersee (Bav): Open-
air plays.

Middle of June — Stuttgart (WB): Mozart
festival.

Middle of June — Cologne (NRW): National
convention, Silesian Society.

Middle of June — Kassel (Hes): German
sewing machines fair.

Middle of June — Jugenheim/Bergstrassé
(WB): Summer festival.

Middle of June — Kiel (SH): Regattas.

Middle of June — Mannheim (WB): 65th
Oberrhein rowing regatta.

Middle of June — Duesseldorf (NRW):
Ladies outer ga:ments industry sales week.

Middle of June-June 30 — Berlin: Inter-
national film festival week.

Middle of June-Middle of August — Eutin
(SH): Carl Maria von Weber festival.

Middle of June-Middle of Sept. — Oetig-
heim (SB): Open-air performances, ‘‘Wil-
helm Tell.”

June — Wilhelmshaven (SH): Convention
Northwest German Universities Associ-
ation. a

June — Bonn (NRW): Bonn University Day.

June — Cologne (NRW): German Catholic
Youth Association convention.

June — Duesseldorf (NRW): Art Exhibition
“Iron and Steel."
June — Nuremberg

organ week.

June — Kassel (Hes): Open-air plays of
State Theater.

June — Aachen (NRW): 107th Lower
Rhenish music festival of Aachen, Dues-
seldorf, Cologne and Wuppertal.

June — Darmstadt (Hes): International va-
cation courses in contemporary music.
June — Recklinghausen (NRW): Ruhr festi-

val plays.

June — Heidelberg (WB): Summer festival
of University.

June — Zweibriicken (RP): Rose festival.

June — Bonn (NRW): Venusberg festival.

June-July — Heidelberg (WB): Serenade
concerts and open-air performances in
castle court.

June-July — Eppstein/Ts (Hes): Open-air
plays in castle.

June-July — Pforzheim (WB): Children's
and flower festival of Garden City.

June-August — Nuremberg (Bav): Hans
Sachs’ plays and castle serenades in
Swedish court of the Kaiserburg.

June-August — Marburg (Hes): Open-air
performances on the castle hill.

June-August — Bamberg (Bav): Festival
concerts by Bamberg Symphony Orchestra
in Dominican Church, Rose Garden and
Kaiser's Hall.

June-August — Bad Reichenhall
Festival of the 10,000 lights.

June-August — Nuremberg (Bav): Centen-
nial of Germanic National Museum.

June-Sept. — Coblenz (RP): Operetta per-
formances on Rhine.

June-Sept. — Hamburg: Garden symphony
concerts in ‘’Planten and Blumen’ ex-
position grounds. +END

(Bav): International

(Bav):

APRIL 1952

--- Page 46 ---
Reply to Soviet Note

German press comment on the West-
ern reply to the Soviet note of March
10* on a peace treaty for Germany
and the establishment of a German na-
tional “defense army," varied greatly,
depending on the part of the note
which the editor considered of impor-
tance. While there was agreement with
the section demanding that a peace
treaty should be negotiated by a freely
elected German government and with
the statement on the German frontiers,
the press was not happy about the
military clauses and was inclined to
see little chance for a reunification
of Germany.

“Notwithstanding all diplomatic
courtesy, the essence of Moscow's pro-
posal has been flatly refused by the
Western Powers," the Deutsche Zeit-
ung (Stuttgart, March 29) summed up
the opinion of a considerable number

* See “The Struggle for German Unity" on
page 19,

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen,
March 15)

German Editorials
And Cartoons

This section is intended to inform the American readers of what Germans are
thinking, without interpretation. The selection has been made so as to cover
the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and to give
a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any event,
viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US authorities.

The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by the Press
Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

HNAUAUECOUOUAGEOOSOUSOOVESUOESOOUNOOGUOOGUONDAOUOUOODOHUBEOUOUOEGNONOGELEDEDEGCONOUOUGAUSOEQEGEOOONGUOUOUDEOUOUOEDOGUOUOUONOUOEOEOOOSEOEU ELS

SqUUUUUATOUACUUCUEVETAUECADUUEMOUT TACT TUDE CAUCE O ETO AOOE

of papers. “The Western Powers are
determined not to leave Germany
—united or not—outside the Euro-
‘pean and Atlantic alliance. They are
sure of the federal chancellor's sup-
port, and it seems that Dr. Adenauer
has no doubt that he will find a parlia-

mentary majority for this policy. In -

view of the trends in the Bundestag,
however, this should not be taken for
granted...”

“After all, is the German problem
really the key to world-wide peace?”
the same paper asked. “To us Ger-
mans, there is no problem of greater
importance. West of our frontier, how-
ever, things look differently. There the
belief is held that keeping Germany
within the Western alliance is of para-
mount importance. To the East, on the
other hand, a separation from this
alliance seems to be the only accept-
able basis for a policy of peace. Apart
from that, world-wide peace could not
be guaranteed to either West or East

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Westdeutsche Rundschau, April 4)

(Rheinische Post, Duesseldorf,
March 22)

European Unity.
It may come to this.

so long as only the German problem
has been solved, but not the Asiatic
one."

Der Tagesspiegel (Berlin, March 26)
commented: “The reply has knocked
out the reservoir of Soviet policy. It,
demands not only free elections, but
also a free government. It states that
the political structure of the Federal
Republics applies to all of Germany.
It beats the Kremlin with the latter's
own Potsdam agreement, by referring
territorial changes to a peace con-
ference.”

Der Mittag (Duesseldorf, March 26)
felt that “unless we are badly mis-
taken, the negotiations suggested by
the Kremlin have already failed in
their initial phase. To us Germans, that
means we will have to expect a more
urgent demand for a defense contribu-
tion. But if the West takes such a
position, it implies that they consider
themselves strong enough to afford
such an answer to the Soviet note.

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung,
Augsburg, March 15)

Cutting it down?

in the other hand, dear Uncle
Joe?"

APRIL 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
(Ruhmachrichten, Essen, April 5)

Haensel and Gretel.

(Die Welt, Hamburg, March 3)

“Come on in, sweetheart, and
we'll play neutrality!”

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, March 27)

Europa.
Hard to get going!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Full approval, from our point of view,
deserves the Western refusal to recog-
nize the Oder-Neisse frontier...”

The weekly Christ und Welt (Stutt-
gart, March 27) warned that the Soviet
note might have been another attempt
at delaying tactics. “Suppose the first
goal of free elections could be reached.
Then the question would arise imme-
diately, what the relationship should
be between the all-German govern-
ment and the Four Powers, pending
the conclusion of the peace treaty.
We would get into a situation very
similar to that of Austria. While the
peace treaty is under negotiation with
the German Government, the danger
of undue delay would prevail. Ger-
many cannot be thrown back into a
situation less favorable than its pres-
ent one.”

Koelner Stadt-Anzeiger (Cologne,
March 27) was annoyed with the sec-
ond part of the Western reply. “Why
did the West yield to the temptation
to deal with Germany's position within
Europe after the conclusion of a peace
treaty? Is there any relationship at
all between this subject and a note
designed to clarify whether negotia-
tions are possible and expedient? This
point in the Western reply grossly
demonstrates the lack of a clear policy
line.

“Rather than placing all possible
emphasis on the decisive problem of
all-German elections and demanding a
clear reply from Moscow, the Western
Powers have furnished the Soviets the
pretext for an evasive answer by
their statements about Germany's fu-
ture status after unification.”

Weser Kurier (Bremen, March 26)
doubted that the West had had a
fortunate hand in formulating the
reply. “It is inconsequent to state ex-
pressly that an all-German government
will have sovereign freedom to join
international coalitions, and at the
same time to restrict that freedom
with respect to military sovereignty.
Moreover, it is contradictory to ap-
prove of the Federal Republic's re-
armament within the Atlantic defense
community, but to consider the rearma-
ment of a sovereign and unified Ger-
many a threat to peace..."

Going one step further, Schwaebische
Landeszeitung (Augsburg, March 26)
came out full blast against the West-

44

(Echo der Woche, Munich, March 29)

(Rheinische Post, Duesseldorf,

March 15)

The Neutralist's Dilemma.

(Essener Allgemeine, Essen, March 28)

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg,

March 18)

Maybe this time he means
business.

APRIL 1952+

--- Page 48 ---
ern attitude. "Walter Lippman (New
York Herald Tribune columnist) told
us openly that the United States should
not support the demand for all-German
elections, because a future central
German government might be less pro-
American than the present one in
Bonn. This shows the dangerous side
of the Western egotism, which is ready
to sacrifice 18,000,000 Germans for the
sake of political expediency.

“Without certain concessions to the
East, a reunification of Germany will
be impossible, at least in a peaceful
way. And since the Soviets will ob-
viously not withdraw without ado and
leave their zone to the Western Pow-
ers, the only way left is that of tena-
cious negotiation. It is a toilsome and
slow way, but it must be pursued as
long as there is the slightest chance
for success. At the moment, the West
demands precisely what the East
wanted to prevent: Germany’s partner-
ship in a Western alliance..."

Luebecker Nachrichten (Luebeck,
March 26} advocated an isolation of
the German problem. “The chances
for Germany's reunification are only
slight, unless the Soviets as well as
the West separate the German prob-
lem from the great contest between
East and West. They should make this
problem the test case of a policy of
unselfish action for, rather than talk
of, German unity. There is little evi-
dence of such a spirit in either
note...”

By contrast, Die Welt (Hamburg,
March 26) said: “Above all, the new
Germany needs peace. Under the pres-
ent political circumstances, it can find
peace only within a strong interna-
tional defense community, the best
form of which is the European defense
community. If Germany were separat-
ed from this community, as is the
evident aim of the Soviet note, its
chances for peace would be dimin-
ished, as would be Europe's and the
world's chances for peace.”

Muenstersche Zeitung (Muenster,
March 26) warned that the Soviets’
“sensational” concession to permit a
German national army was only
“simple mathematics." “The rebuilding
of a German army would take a very
long time, if the financial burden were
to be borne by Germany alone. Until

APRIL 1952

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, April 5)

Suggested costume for Adenauer
in Washington.

45

that time, meaning practically for the
next 10 years, Germany would be neu-
tralized, without a military potential
of its own, while the Soviet Union
would have a free hand, particularly
in Asia.

The German labor weekly Welt der
Arbeit (Duesseldorf, March 28) envis-
aged a situation similar to that of
Korea if the West agreed to the Soviet
proposal. ‘On the one hand they press
the remilitarization of the Soviet Zone,
on the other they offer peace with the
goal of an early withdrdwal of the
Occupation Forces.

“Thus we would have conditions
similar to those in Korea before the
North Korean offensive: one half of
the country vacated by the Western
occupation troops and exposed to out-
side force, the other half armed to the
teeth and supported by their powerful
protectors in Moscow.”

Westdeutsche Rundschau (Wupper-
tal, March 26) summed up the situa-
tion this way: “For us Germans, it
may be hard to understand the atti-
tude of the Western Powers, as they
seem to sacrifice the reunification of
Germany within a foreseeable time in
favor of the final goal of a United
Europe from the Atlantic coast to the
Russian border.

“However, it may be expedient for
us to get used to this fact... Of course
this bitter recognition does not affect
the goal of any German government,
which must be reunification of Ger-
many. But we cannot help it that no
German government — be it Adenauer
or Schumacher — can realize this aim
because, though our very national af-
fair, it is outside our reach."

President Truman's Decision

When President Truman announced
that he would not be a candidate for
re-election this year, the German press
reacted with expressions of sincere
regret and praise for the initiator of
the Truman Doctrine.

“President Truman himself has said
that in a democracy no man is in-
dispensable,” commented Frankfurter
Rundschau (Frankfurt, April 1). “He
has lived up to this statement and has
renounced his candidacy. His decision
was that of a party tactician as well
as a statesman.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, March 29)

“When the free world strikes a
balance at the end of the Truman
administration, it may add this wise
decision to the credit of a man who,
like no other politician, grew with the
burden of his work."

Westdeutsche Allgemeine (Essen,
April 1) stressed the German regret at
the President's announcement. ‘No
wonder, because the name of Harry
Truman is linked with the revolu-
tionary change in US foreign policy
since the end of the war.

“Certainly a complete reorientation
of American foreign policy had already
been accomplished by the US entry
into World War II under Mr. Roosevelt.
But Mr. Roosevelt's line could not be
maintained because it was based on
fruitful cooperation with the Soviet
Union, which proved impossible.

“It was Mr. Truman who had this
bitter experience and he drew a
tremendously courageous consequence:
to support the European countries out-
side of the Russian area of pre-
dominance, including the ex-enemy
Germany, as far as it was within the
Western sphere.”

Badische Neueste Nachrichten
(Karlsruhe, April 1) said that “within

(Westfaelische Nachrichten, Muenster, March 29)

Federal Press Law.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, April 4)

Panmunjom Marathon.

the seven years which will forever be
linked to Mr. Truman's name, the
United States has risen to predominant
power among the free nations of the
world. It has freed itself from the
shackles of a century-old policy of
isolation and has assumed the world-
wide task of supporting the nations
who are called upon to assert their
independence against militant Com-
munism.

“The military aid for Greece and
Turkey, the Marshall Plan, the Mutual
Assistance Pact and the Point Four
Program are but phases of an over-all
plan, which was mapped out and
partly implemented under the Truman
administration. We Europeans, ex-
hausted by the war and groaning
under the burden of reconstruction,
must acknowledge that Mr. Truman
has become a friend of Europe.”

“With Harry Truman the American
political scene will lose a man who
made calculable that mixture of so
many factors, controversies and specu-
lations: American policy,” said Ham-
burger Freie Presse (Hamburg, March
31). “With Mr. Truman, we knew what
to expect; with his successor, whoever
it may be, we don't. Mr. Truman had

(Freie Presse, Bielefeld, March 20)

East Zone Plebiscite.

46

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, March 13)

e
“Keep ‘em pumping, Harry, I really
think I hear something growing."

a sense for continuity in politics, and
above all, he shared a sound dis-
inclination against experiments with
the man in the street, whose represent-
ative he felt himself to be,

“Mr. Truman was of a_ skeptical
soberness. In that sense the exact op-
posite of his predecessor, he had a
very realistic and practical, rather
than idealistic, idea of politics and of
his political mission. He was not a
very strong personality, and his po-
litical line was not always clear and
straight. His opinion and tactics were
flexible, but he had a strong sense of
responsibility...

“Because he did not have the
endowments of a genius, he did not
fall for the genius’ temptation: under
his leadership the pendulum of Ameri-
can policy could vibrate slightly forth
and back, but it would never swing
to extremes. To point out what that
means in terms of foreign policy:
under President Truman the United
States would never take a course
toward war or into a self-satisfied
isolation. We can only hope that his
successor will possess this sober gift
of introspection and modesty.” --END

(Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim, March 28)

“Gee, those people don't seem
to like my gasoline.”

APRIL 1952

--- Page 50 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of March 27

The 88th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Office of the French High Commissioner,
Hotel Dreesen, Bad Godesberg, March 27,
Present were Andre Francois-Poncet, French
High Commissioner (chairman), Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner, and Maj.Gen. George P. Hays,
Deputy United States High Commissioner,
acting for John J. McCloy.

The Council:

1. Decided to repeal the provisions of
United States/United Kingdom Military
Government Laws No, 15 insofar as they
apply to federal civil servants covered by
the provisional civil service law of the
Federal Republic, An Allied High Commis-
sion Law to this effect will be published
in the next issue of the Official Gazette.
These provisions of Military Government
Law No. 15 have been in suspension since
May 31, 1950.

2. Signed an Allied High Commission
Law depriving of effect in Hansestadt Ham-
burg the provisions of Article III, Para-
graph 2, of Control Council Law No. 22
(works councils), thus permitting Hanse-
stadt Hamburg legislation on works coun-
cils to go into effect. .

HICOM Meeting of April 3

The 89th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held April 3
at the Petersberg. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman), John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner.

The meeting afforded the Council oppor-
tunity for a survey of matters which are to
be discussed at a meeting April 4 with the
federal chancellor when the negotiation of
the contractual arrangements will be con-
tinued.

Meeting with Chancellor

The Allied high commissioners and the
federal German chancellor met again on
April 4 at the Office of the United States
High Commissioner in Mehlem to continue
their negotiations, It had been agreed that
on this occasion a special effort would be
made to review outstanding differences in
the various conventions not yet concluded.
The meeting therefore lasted from 3:30 p.m.
until midnight. .

In the course of this session, it proved
possible to work through a long agenda
and to reach final agreement on many of
the questions it included. A number of im-
Portant problems that have been holding
up progress for some time have thus been
settled; and the meeting marked a further
important step forward toward the com-
pletion of the agreements.

Certain outstanding questions are not
yet ready for discussion at the level of the
chancellor and the high commissioners. All
Temaining questions that are ready will,
however, be discussed in a similar meeting
which has been arranged for April 9.

Meeting with Chancellor
The Allied high commissioners and the
federal chancellor met April 9 at the Office

APRIL 1952

of the United States High Commissioner in
Mehlem to continue their negotiations of
the ‘contractual arrangements. Excellent
progress was made. Further meetings be-
tween the chancellor and the high com-
missioners will take place April 21 and 24.

HICOM Meeting of April 16

At its 90th meeting, the Council of the
Allied High Commission took occasion to
express its regret at the imminent depar-
ture of Maj.-Gen. George P. Hays, Deputy
United States High Commissioner. The Coun-
cil expressed its appreciation for the serv-
ices General Hays has rendered to the High
Commission and its congratulations on his
new appointment as commanding general,
United States Forces, Austria.

Laws and Regulations

Occupation Damages Law

The Allied High Commission has approv-
ed Regulation No. 2 under Law No, 47
(Compensation for Occupation Damages),
specifying the procedures to be followed
by applicants for compensation under the
law.

Inter alia, the regulation provides that
applications may be filed by the person
suffering the loss or damage or by his
authorized agent and that such applications
shall be filed in the zone in which the
incident giving rise to loss or damage
occurred. It also specifies procedures to be
followed in cases in which the application
filed in one zone involves loss or damage
resulting from acts or omission of Allied
Forces of another zone, and for cases in
which more than one national element of
the Allied Forces are involved.

The text of the regulation is published
in the March 21 issue of the Official Ga-
zette of the Allied High Commission.

Conversion of Reichsmarks

The Allied High Commission has approv-
ed a law providing for the conversion into
Deutsche marks of Reichsmarks taken out
of Germany at the time of their repatriation
by United: Nations nationals who had been
prisoners of war, political or racial depor-
tees, civilian internees or forced laborers.
The Reichsmarks are to be converted into
Deutsche marks at the rate of. DM 6.50 for
100 Reichsmarks or Rentenmarks up to the
maximum of DM 32.50 per person. The
Deutsche marks are to be paid by the
Bank Deutscher Laender (Bank of German
States) into blocked accounts in the Federal
Republic to the credit of the Allied gov-
ernments concerned which will make pay-
ment to the repatriated nationals.

In order to benefit by the conversion,
repatriated persons must meet the follow-
ing conditions:

1. They must have been repatriated prior
to July 1, 1946.

2. They must have surrendered their
Reichsmarks in accordance with the regu-
lations of their respective countries.

3. They must be nationals of countries
which had recognized the Federal Republic
on or before Jan. 1, 1952.

47

Because of the existing confusion at the
time of their repatriation, many United
Nations nationals held in Germany during
the war took with them Reichsmarks which
they had earned in Germany. Repatriates
had to deposit these Reichsmarks on return
to their own countries, Thus, unlike Ger-
man nationals, they had no possibility to
convert the Reichsmarks at the time of cur-
rency reform, The present law now makes
it possible for such persons to convert these
earnings into Deutsche marks. The maxi-
mum. amount of 500 Reichsmarks (DM 32.50)
per person which may be converted was
fixed taking into account the financial
situation of the Federal Republic.

Since this question is connected with the
currency reform legislation, which is in the
reserved fields, an Allied law was neces-
sary. The text of the law was published
in the March 21 issue of the Official Ga-
zette of the Allied High Commission.

Official Statements

Condolences on Minister's Death

Following is the text of a letter of con-
dolence on the recent death of Federal
Minister Eberhard Wildermuth which has
been sent to the federal chancellor by US
High Commissioner McCloy:

I am writing you to express my regrets
at the recent death of Federal Minister of
Housing, Eberhard Wildermuth, whose best
memorial is the housing he has provided
for millions of his fellow countrymen,

His death has been keenly felt by all the
members of my staff who have dealt with
him concerning the vital problem of hous-
ing in Germany today.

One of my‘staff members in an address
given. Monday in connection with the
Entwicklungsbauprogramm made the fol-
lowing statement about Minister Wilder-
muth:

“Had it not been for his immediate and
hearty support, this program would have
been impossible. And not only this pro-
gram but others which we worked to-
gether on. Almost all ECA programs
were extremely difficult for him to agree
to. Complicated and unusual in their
nature, it meant facing problems and criti-
cism, but with'the courage and decisive-
ness of his nature he accepted them
wholeheartedly and stuck with them through
thick and thin. This was not done with a
grudging manner, but with such fine whole-
heartedness and such courtesy and good
humor that at this moment I can only think
of the personal loss I have sustained. And
out of this personal feeling I can more
vitally and sincerely assure you all of my
heartfelt sympathy.”

I would not only like to endorse this
statement but to say further that in ad-
dition to the splendid cooperation he has
rendered us, we understand he has been
largely responsible for the housing laws
guaranteeing that housing shall be given
first to the most needy.

Minister Wildermuth's dedication to the
cause of low cost housing in Germany and
the effort and selflessness that he brought
to his work have been an inspiration to all
of us here. Not only you but everyone
who has worked with him will keenly feel
his loss in our mutual program — the re-
building of Germany.

Bremen Commended on Settlement

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy
in a letter to the president of the Bremen

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Senate, Mayor Wilhelm Kaisen, expressed
his gratification for the attitude and good
will shown by Bremen authorities in the
settlement of restitution claims of the
Jewish community. The text of the letter,
dated March 25, follows:

In my discussion of restitution with you
and the other ministers-president, I have
come to know that you share my view of
the importance of this problem in the de-
velopment of Germany's future internation-
al relations. It is with great satisfaction,
though not with surprise, that I note in my
periodic review of the progress in restitu-
tion matters being made in the states that
Bremen has been moving steadily ahead
and has made commendable progress.

I am aware that a satisfactory over-all
settlement has been made between Bremen
and the IRSO; that this settlement does
not outlaw individual claims; and, further-
more, that arrangements have been made
to take care of Jewish claims which may
be submitted even after the published ter-
minal date of acceptance of claims. I am
now informed that Bremen has gone even
further, and has presented to the German
local community a fund which is intended
as recompense to the Jewish community
for the loss and damage suffered by the
community through Nazi depredation and
injustice.

‘Admiral Jeffs (Rear Admiral Charles
Jeffs, USN Ret., US state commissioner for
Bremen) has read to me an excerpt from a
letter of appreciation addressed to you by
Mr. Katz, head of the Bremen Jewish com-
munity. I am impressed by the fact that
this testimonial was termed by Mr. Katz to
be a “moral duty” on the part of the Jew-
ish community in appreciation of what was
obviously considered by the community to
be a gracious act and gesture of good will
on the part of the Bremen government.

Bremen’s fine action and the expression
of gratitude which it evoked are indicative
of a genuine and sincere spirit of tolerance
and neighborly understanding on the part
of the people of the state of Bremen. I
know that your own fine qualities of lead-
ership and humanity have played no small
part in the record the state of Bremen has
made in this and other fields of community,
national and international significance. I
am pleased to express to you and the
people of the state of Bremen my con-
gratulations and sincere good wishes for
continued progress and success.

Official Announcements

Show-Cause Order to Dairies

The Decartelization and Industrial De-
concentration Group (DIDEG) of the Allied
High Commission announced. March 18
that it has issued an order to show cause
against two associations composed of but-
ter producing dairies in Bavaria:

1. Molkerei Zentrale Bayern e.G.m.b.H.,
Nuremberg, Milchhofstrasse 2

2. Bayrischer Molkerei Verband e.G.
m.b.H., Kempten, Allgaeu.

The order requires the associations to
show cause why they should not be
ordered

1, To cease fixing prices at which butter
may be sold by the members of the as-
sociations.

2. To cease agreeing on division of
markets and customers.

3. To refrain from discriminating against
butter wholesalers who are not members of
the associations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The order was issued after DIDEG, act-
ing upon numerous complaints, made an
investigation of conditions surrounding
the sale and production of butter in Bavaria.

The order alleges that all important
butter producing dairies in Bavaria belong
to one of the two associations named in
the order, and that the associations by
agreement between themselves and with
the city dairies of Bavaria have unlaw-
fully controlled and restrained the pro-
duction and sale of butter in Bavaria, in
violation of the decartelization laws. In
Particular, both associations are charged
with limiting the production of butter and
restraining competition among dairies by
preventing them from selling butter out-
side certain districts or from doing busi-
ness with wholesalers or customers of
other member dairies.

This order was issued by DIDEG as
the agency responsible for’ the enforce-
ment of the decartelization laws which
prohibit the arbitrary control and restric-
tion of production, as well as the collusive
fixing of prices.

Sales Organization Decontrolled

The Allied High Commission has decided
that Kohlenwertstoff A.G. of Bochum, a
sales organization for coal by-products,
will be released from control under AHC
Law No. 27 (Reorganization of the German
Coal and Iron and Steel Industries) as soon
as it has carried out the voluntarv deconcen-
tration plan submitted by the company to
the High Commission on March 12, 1952,
providing for the transfer of the assets of
Kohlenwertstoff A.G. to three new com-
panies,

The High Commission decision is given
effect by Regulation No. 15 under Law 27
published in the Official Gazette dated
April 8, 1952.

Kohlenwertstoff A.G., of Bochum, is one
of the 13 enterprises listed in schedule A to
Law No. 27. On Feb. 19, 1951 the Allied
High Commission announced approval of
a regulation providing for its liquidation.
Since the Allied High Commission considers
that the voluntary deconcentration plan
submitted by Kohlenwertstoff A.G, meets
the requirements of Law No. 27, the liqui-
dation of the company will be carried out
in accordance with this plan.

PX Ration Card Regulations

Recent changes in regulations governing
issuance and use of Post Exchange ration
cards:

1, Replacement of lost ration cards will
be at the discretion of the administrative
officer, based upon the circumstances in-
volved in each case. If loss occurs within
the post issuing the replacement card,
issuance will be withheld until it is deter-
mined that the lost card has not been
turned in.

2. When a replacement (new) card is
issued, all cigarette coupons will be re-
moved and all spaces or coupons provided
for recording purchase of coffee and other
rationed items will be voided. The replace-
ment cards will not be valid for purchase
of any rationed item.

3. The holder of a Post Exchange ration
card cannot authorize another individual
to purchase rationed items, unless the
holder is hospitalized or confined in prison,
in which case the hospital or prison com-
mander may give written authorization to
another individual.

4. An individual ration card holder is
authorized to purchase rationed items for

48

other members of his or her family on
their ration cards.

5. Persons other than members of the US
Army, Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard
in uniform, will present their valid identity
document and valid ration card bearing the
same name to gain entrance to any EES
installation,

6. Ration card and valid identification
will be required for comparison for each
purchase of rationed items.

7. It is prohibited to possess or use more
than one ration card made out in the name
of the same person for a given ration
period, or to otherwise possess or use
ration cards fraudulently —from HICOG
Bulletin (Mehlem) No. 18.

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received in the editorial office
of the Information Bulletin during March
and early April. Requests for these publica-
tions should be addressed to the originat-
ing agency.

Cumulative Index of Legislation, Second
Supplement, Office of General Counsel,
HICOG (Mehlem), Jan, 17, 1952, Listing
of changes and additions in Cumulative
Index of July 20, 1951, and first supple-
ment of Sept. 24, 1951.

Clemency and Prison Statistics, Prisons Di-
vision, Office of General Counsel,
HICOG (Bad Godesberg), Feb. 29, 1951.
Monthly report as of Feb. 29.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 318,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), March 21. Covers
German newspapers and other publica-
tions dated up to March 21.

Kontakt (Contact), Vol..I, No. 3 (February),
Exchanges Staff, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), March 27, 1952.
Magazine, mostly in German, containing
contributions from returned exchanges.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No, 319,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Division, Office of Public Affairs
HICOG (Frankfurt), March 28, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to March 28.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany},
No. 38, High Commission of the French
Government in Germany, March 31, 1952.
Official French report for February.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 320,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), April 4, 1952. Covers
German newspapers and _ publications
dated up to April 4.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 321,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), April 10, 1952. Covers
German newspapers and other publica-
tions dated up to April 10 (last number
of this series).

Information Bulletin for March, Infor-
mation Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), April 22, 1952,

Buecher-Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 66,
US Information Centers Branch, Division
of Cultural Affairs, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), April 14,
1952, List of books to be~ distributed
among the US Information Centers in
Germany. -+-END

APRIL 1952

;

--- Page 52 ---
Above, American soldiers (right) take over from Soviet army (left) the guard of Spandau Allied Prison, where major Nazi
war criminals are confined. At right below, American soldiers march into position before assuming charge of month's duty.

British military policeman (left, below), escorts Soviet guards from prison area while
army officials and visitors watch. An American takes over at a lookout tower (right).

--- Page 53 ---
Three visitors to the US Information Center in Berlin examine some of the
black-and-white artistic works placed on exhibition there in April. Sponsored by
“The Ring,” an artists' association, in cooperation with officials of the center,
the exhibit remained open throughout the month. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)