--- Page 2 ---
THIS ISSUE: LE CBG

i

Visit to Bad Godesberg

Darmstadt Survey (see page 1) | ree

Page 3

War of Words

Page 7

New Spirit in
Old Prisons

Page 9

A Day with the
US Marines

Pages 16-17

Rias’ Effectiveness
Evident in Poland

Page 19

AUGUST
1952

--- Page 3 ---
New Fire Brigade Flag
Presented Oberdrees

The 700 residents of the little town of Oberdrees, near
Euskirchen southwest of Cologne, had been sad since the
war because of the loss of the original flag of the vil-
lage’s volunteer fire brigade. They said it had been taken
by an American soldier as a war souvenir. Recently of-
ficials of the fire brigade read that HICOG should be
contacted regarding restitution of war losses, so they did,
and HICOG ordered a new flag, valued at DM 1,000
($238). For an all-day festival on Sunday, July 20, Glenn
G. Wolfe, executive director of the Office of the US
High Commissioner for Germany; Jack H. Lennon, chief
of HICOG’s Administrative Services Division, and a
US Marines color guard came to the village to formally
present the new banner.

ae ae (photos by Norbert Gassner, Information Division, HICOG)
Sgts. William W. Chujnacki, Burdon O. Michael and
Edward ‘J. Coughlin of US Marines carry furled flag to
ceremony.

% a alla wa”

Mr. Wolfe rides through village streets with the mayor.

stand.

Sergeant Michael hands banner to member of fire brigade. On flag is picture of St. Florian, patron of the village.

J FREIW/|

Pir zuee iy a Yo ion

ct

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff
Editor ............. H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor..... Frank H. Jonas
Feature Editor... Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8428, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, by offset process, by
the Printing and Reproduction Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located at 2 Rheingau
Allee, Frankfurt.

Distribution is handled by the Dis-
tribution Unit, Communications Serv-
ices Division, Office of Executive Di-
rector, HICOG. This unit is located
in US Headquarters Building, Room
949, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

Correspondence concerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Public Affairs
Field Center or the American Con-
sulate General.

Correspondence concerning inquir-
ies and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

Cover Photograph—Miss Margaret Truman
was met by US High Commissioner Walter
J. Donnelly and a group of HICOG officials
as she stopped in Bad Godesberg Aug. 10
to visit the US headquarters in Germany.
Miss Truman, accompanied by her friend,
Mrs. John Horton, was on a vacation tour of
Europe. She arrived in Bad Godesberg after
a four-and-half-hour trip from Wiesbaden
aboard a US Navy Rhine River patrol boat.

(PLB-ID-HICOG photo by Gassner)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

August 1952

New Fire Brigade Flag. .... . . . inside front cover
Pictorial Feature

The Sixth Column. .... 2... - +--+ ee eee 2
Commentary by Ernst Friedlaender

Darmstadt Survey... ..---- ee ee tee es 3
Article by Dr. Frank H. Jonas

Higher Living Standards Possible in Germany .... 6

War of Words... ...--- 2 eee eee eee es 1

Article by Helen McLaughlin

New Spirit in Old Prisons .......-..-.- rn)
Article by Wilfried Saliger

Free University Grows .....- +--+ +--+ ees 13
Cornerstone-Laying Ceremony

Fulbright Agreement .....--- +--+ ee eee 15
Contract-Signing Ceremony

A Day with the US Marines in Mehlem ..... . 16-17
Pictorial Feature

Life in the Soviet Zone ......-.-.-----.--- 18
Statement by E.S. Volchansky

RIAS’ Effectiveness Evident in Poland....... . 19
Interview with Refugee

In and Around Germany. .......---+-+--+-+- 20

German Editorials... ......----++2::5 *. 28

Text of Communique of London Conference .... . 32

Berlin’s Cultural Festival. ..... . inside back cover

Pictorial Feature

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
The Sixth Column

By Ernst Friedlaender

AUNTS

5 =

i

The Soviet hate campaign against the United States
is going full blast. The campaign, which is conducted in
an authoritarian manner, started about a half year
ago and has increased in violence ever since. The ac-
cusation that the Americans conduct bacteriological
warfare in Korea was only one of its highlights. This
heavy artillery was not designed to be effective only in
the Soviet sphere of power. It is at the same time a
weapon in the Cold War.

Moscow knows very well that everywhere in Europe
there is such a thing as anti-Americanism. This anti-
Americanism has various causes and various shades. It
definitely is a soft spot in the unity of the West. And
the Soviets have an eye for soft spots. They make use
of the European anti-Americanism, although they know
perfectly well that this anti-Americanism has hardly
anything to do with pro-Soviet sympathies.

Anti-Americanism

Naturally, there are Communists west of the Iron
Curtain, too. Naturally, it is their job to agitate against
America. This is the well-known “fifth column.” But
much more interesting and in some respects much more
dangerous is the still hardly known “sixth column” of
“good” Europeans who are anti-Communist and anti-
American at the same time.

The resentment against America is deeply rooted. This
resentment can be found in all western European coun-
tries, from England to Greece. It can be found at all
levels of society, from the man-in-the-street to the par-
liaments and the governments. Any close observer of
this development cannot doubt that the anti-American
feelings and trends in public opinion have increased in
volume and intensity during the last year. For Europe-
ans from different nations it has even become a favored
basis of approach and mutual understanding to criticize
jointly “the” Americans.

Mr. Friedlaender, who is one of the foremost political
writers in Germany, presented this commentary in his
column “As I See It” Aug. 16 in the Hamburger Abend-
blatt and Stuttgarter Nachrichten. The translation, which
is by Robert Lochner, chief of the Press Branch, In-
formation Division, HICOG, is printed in the Informa-
tion Bulletin by special permission of Mr. Friedlaender
and cannot be reprinted without specific authorization
of the author. The views expressed in the commentary
are those of the writer and their presentation here does
not necessarily imply concurrence by US authorities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Fear and Weakness

Many factors join together to produce this reaction
— anti-capitalist ire as well as capitalist envy. Europe
has grown poor and weak and, with a queer logic, Eu-
rope begrudges America its wealth and power. Many
Europeans are very touchy about their benefactors from
beyond the sea and at the same time angry when US
aid is reduced. They seek refuge in a false beggar’s
pride and in an equally false cultural snobbery. They
are eager to detect the “barbarians” in the Americans so
that they may look down upon them.

And if present-day European reality is obviously not
such as to prove its superiority over that of the Amer-
icans, consolation is sought in European museums and
archives. There is plenty of room for contradictions in
the gap between today’s inferiority complex and yester-
day’s claim of superiority. Europe is afraid of too great
an alien influence. Europe is afraid of being taken in
tow by America. Its actual resistance against the Amer-
icanization of large parts of its civilization is really
weak, but it protests all the same. In the same way it
has let itself be protected by America for years while
dreaming of being the “third force” or: dreaming of an
idyllic neutrality.

Oh, how wonderful it would be to believe that this is
only an American-Soviet conflict which really does not
coricern the Europeans! How wonderful it would be to
transfer into a lifeboat reserved for Europeans from the
boat in which one sits together with the Americans —
and not even at the helm! Yes, the helm. For too long
a time one has been at the helm oneself to be able to
hand it to somebody else ungrudgingly. For centuries
Europe was the focus of world history. That is a thing
of the past. And now one views the new world power
beyond the Atlantic with the displeasure of the weak.

America is a world power against its own will. It is
a world power suffering growing pains. America’s best
friends in Europe are aware of this. There is the well-
known haphazardness of its policies which does not
permit predictions of what will come tomorrow. There
is the naive joy of one’s own success which misleads one
to believe in panacea. But the “American way of life”
cannot readily be exported, certainly not by shirt sleeve
missionaries. The oversimplification of problems is not
a way to their solution.

Who Is Dangerous?

If America perhaps has too little experience, Europe
certainly has too much. One cannot claim that the
British policy in the Near East or the French policy in
Indo-China or Tunesia was more successful than the
American policy in China. The American policy some-
times is too unpredictably flexible, the European policy
tends to become rigidly inflexible. In Europe we make
our problems so complicated that they become insoluble.

There is sufficient occasion here for mutual criticism
bétween friends; such criticism could be very construc-

Continued on page 3

AUGUST 195?

--- Page 6 ---
Darmstadt Survey

by Dr. Frank H. Jonas

we A YOUNG German social scientist recently
presented four published volumes to the Darm-
stadt city mayor and the Hessian state minister of cul-
ture and education he signalized a singular event in the
history of German social science. This formal gesture
marked a substantial fulfillment of a joint American
and German research project known as the Darmstadt
Community Survey*. Symbolically the results of this
first community survey in Germany were turned over
to all mayors and governmental ministers in Germany
for their scrutiny and possible application.

This opinion-and-fact-gathering study, which is about
people who live in the city of Darmstadt and its sur-
rounding area, required more than three years. An
enormous number of items about human beings, what
they think, like and do in their daily lives, was collected
by means of carefully worked-out questionnaires and
extensive interviews with individuals scientifically sam-
pled from the citizenry. Standard methods of empirical
research were employed, which means that the Ger-
man scientists went out and got the information them-
selves, which they then compiled, evaluated and sys-
tematized for publication.

Tes scientists, who early in the project organized
themselves into the Institute of Social Science Re-
search, effected the plan first launched by American Mil-
itary Government and completed under HICOG to ex-
amine the living conditions in an average German city,
its labor conditions, community problems and institu-
tions, and to find answers to some very specific ques-
tions. For example:

How did the inhabitants of such a city earn their
livelihood?

How did they live as members of the community?

How did they use their leisure time?

How were their non-professional interests developed?

What were their housing conditions, and what would
their interest be in common questions.

How had the citizens adjusted to postwar conditions?

The project planners wanted to know something too
about the revival of workers’ and employers’ organiza-
tions after the war.

Parenthetically, Dr. Nels Anderson, who conceived
the plan, viewed with some alarm “the practice of
American agencies to plan programs for activities in
German communities without the planners having very
much exact information about the people and the area.”

*See “Community Survey” by Nels Anderson in the Informa-
tion Bulletin, May 31, 1949.

AUGUST 1952

O PINPOINT this survey it may be enough to recall

the well-known American study by the Lynds, whose
title Middletown has become a byword to scholars and
laymen alike. Unlike Middletown and similar studies in
France, England and Sweden, the German study in-
cludes both the city and its hinterland within its area
of investigation. In contrast to the American Middletown,
the German study was not made anonymously or se-
cretly but with the solicited and widespread cooperation
of the citizens and their city officials.

The city of Darmtadt was chosen to come under the
sociological microscope, because it was representative of
the physically war-torn and economically hard-hit Ger-
man towns with a variety of social and economic aspects
which would make a study of this kind fruitful and the
results perhaps valid for other cities in Germany.

Though its postwar population is about 35,000 less than
the prewar figure of 115,000, the city and its area have

Dr. Herbert Koetter (center), representing the Institute
of Social Science Research in Darmstadt, presents the
first four published volumes of the Darmstadt Commun-
ity Survey to Hessian state minister of education and
culture, Ludwig Metzger, who as former lord mayor of
Darmstadt welcomed the initiating of the survey in 1949.
Ernst Schroeder (right), present mayor, has received the
volumes in behalf of the city administration.

(Stars and Stripes photos)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
absorbed its share of the 10,000,000 refugees and ex-
Pellees from eastern Europe. This is one of Germany’s
most serious postwar problems. This population shift
has resulted, for example, in introducing a strong cath-
olic contingency in a once predominantly Protestant
area.

N YEARS past, as the former south Hessian capital,

Darmstadt has also been known .as a civil servant’s
town with relatively little industry and trade-union
tradition. Today its industrial life is on the increase,
with scores of part-time farmers living in the nearby
villages commuting to the city for work in factories and
shops.

Because its approach is through people as workers,
and because of its sponsorship by the Academy of Labor
in Frankfurt and its direction by the labor affairs com-
ponents of Military Government and HICOG, the study
has a pronounced labor or worker emphasis.

Direct supervision of the project was in the hands of
American sociologists, Dr. Henry Meyers and Dr. Ashley
Weeks from New York University, who visited Darm-
stadt intermittently during the three year period, and
particularly Dr. S. Earl Grigsby, who remained con-
tinuously on the ground to watch every detail of the
tremendous undertaking after it was initiated by Dr.
Anderson, who then was consultant of the Manpower
Division, OMGUS, and now is labor affairs adviser in
the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. H. A. Zinkeisen,
director of the Academy of Labor in Frankfurt, was the

Dr. Jonas, author of this article, is well familiar
with the background of the Darmstadt survey as the
Lynds’ Middletown and similar studies were used as
collateral reading in the course, Problems of Modern
Society, which he co-introduced, co-directed and
taught in the General Studies Program, required for
all first two-year students at the University of
Southern California.

He also taught political science at the University
of Washington, University of Southern California,
University of New Mexico, University of Illinois,
University of Utah, Utah State Agricultural College
and Idaho State College; sociology at Idaho State
College, and courses in public opinion and prop-
aganda at the Universities of Southern California,
New Mexico and Utah. He has conducted and part-
icipated in many surveys of opinion, particularly in
the field of practical politics, and contributed articles
to leading journals based on research using the
empirical method.

Dr. Jonas was appointed recently to the editorial
staff of the Information Bulletin as assistant editor.
Prior to that, he prepared the Daily Press Review,
then issued by HICOG’s Information Services Divi-
sion, of pertinent comments and opinions from the
German newspapers. His home is in Salt Lake City,
Utah.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

administrator in behalf of the sponsors. Early in 1951,
the Institute of Social Research of the University of
Frankfurt under the direction of Professors Theodor W.
Adorno and Frederick Pollock, and the Institute for the
Study of Farm Management of the Justus Liebig-Hoch-
schule in Giessen under the direction of Prof. Max
Rolfes, assisted in determining editorial policy and
drafting the monographs.

EN VOLUMES in German are being published,

though numbers six and seven will appear in one
binding. Numbers one, three, eight and nine figured in
the ceremony. A single volume in English, now in pre-
paration, is due to appear early next spring. The ten mon-
ographs, with their authors and unofficial English trans-
lations of their titles, are as follows:

1. The Structure and Function of Rural Communities
in the Sphere of Influence of a German Middle-sized
City, Herbert Koetter.

2. Rural Populations within the Power Sphere (socio-
economic forces) of the City, Karl-Guenner Grueneiser.

3. The Part-Time Farmer and his Family in the Cross
Currents of Rural and Urban Ways of Life, Gerhard
Teiwes.

4. Youth in the Postwar Period, Gerhard Baumert.
5. German Families after the War, Edith Huenninger.

6. Schools and Youth in a Bombed-out City, Irma
Kuhn.

7. The Girls of a Senior High School Class, Giselheid
Koepenick.

8. Civil Authorities and Citizens, Klaus A. Lindemann.

9. Trade Unions and Work Councils in the Judgment
of the Worker, Anneliese Mausolff.

10. Leisure Time Activities of the Working Population
in a Bombed-out City, Martin S. Allword.

Each of the four published volumes, averaging 190
pages, has a foreword by the author, a table of contents,
an introduction, an index, a bibliography and an English
abstract which briefly reviews the contents. The text is
liberally sprinkled with charts and statistical tables. The
technique of opinion and information gathering which
was employed is explained at the beginning of each
volume, with examples of questionnaires and other
pertinent data in an appendix.

VOLUMES NINE and ten give the study an intended
labor emphasis, while the first three volumes will in-
terest the rural sociologists. Students of labor relations
and labor officials will be interested in the trade union
structure and functioning in the plants, the stratifica-
tion of the workers and the changes of jobs and occupa-
tions due principally to the war. They, together with
Personnel directors, will find good material on what
the German worker thinks of his supervisor and what
he thinks a supervisor ought to be like.

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 8 ---
The sociologist of family problems, usually also an
observer of youth problems, will find the remaining
studies enlightening. Educators will want to examine
numbers six and seven. Number seven, a study by a
young high school girl of her own class, is one of the
more interesting of the studies with a wealth of un-
tapped material left over after publication. Revealing
what the citizen thinks of his government, with implica-
tions for conservatism and bureaucracy, number eight
will interest both the public administrationist and pol-
itical scientist.

Social scientists will not be the only group to find in
the whole study an abundance of information. American
governmental employees dealing with German affairs
will find helpful material. So will anyone who is con-
cerned with the making and administering of foreign
policy, or anyone at all who wants some valid data on
German life.

purr SERVANTS may ignore the volumes after
receiving them from the scientists, but not so the
reviewers and critics. Anticipating some attacks, the
professional editorial advisers, who wrote the introduc-
tions, have delineated some of their contributions and
limitations.

The studies, they agree, are not definitive in their spe-
cial fields, nor do they describe permanent features. But
they are beginnings and show trends, setting up a strict
— and much needed in Germany — empirical method
for the study of human behavior. “In this sense”, Pro-
fessors Rolfes and Adorno conclude, “the study of
Teiwes — as all other monographs of the Darmstadt
Community Survey — serves as fruitful pioneer work.”

Professor Pollock, in the Mausolff volume, which may
be considered the best in conforming closest to strict
American standards of empirical research, is more pe-
netrating in his prelude. Fully admitting that the work
is unique in Germany, he says the material is dated
and not automatically valid for the German Federal
Republic nor for Darmstadt today. Besides he claims
that Darmstadt is atypical for a labor study, since it
has comparatively little industrial life. Even the method
falls short, he states, because the study was a part of a
comprehensive plan, a fact which limited the numbers
of questions and samples on the basis of which the
evaluations were made.

T= SHORTCOMINGS, according to Dr. Anderson,

are “only minor” and do not damage “the worth of
the effort.” Each study makes a distinct contribution to
the knowledge in its special field. Critics may question
Some of the interpretations and how the material is set
up, but they will not be able to ignore the mass of val-
uable available information. True, there are some de-
viations from the empirical method of research, but
these do not detract seriously from the residual value
of the survey. Lastly, a group of young German social

AUGUST 1952

Mayor Schroeder (standing), at ceremony for presentation
of volumes, thanks the Americans for their part in bring-
ing the survey to successful conclusion. Seated at table
are (left to right): Dr. George A. Selke, acting chief of

HICOG’s Division of Cultural Affairs; Mr. Metzger;
Julius Reiber, city councilman; Prof. Theodor W. Adorno,
acting director of Institute of Social Research, Univer-
sity of Frankfurt.

scientists acquired for the first time a feeling for Ger-
many’s immense postwar problems as well as for this
kind of research. They have attended a school which has
existed for the first time and only once in Germany, re-
ceiving a training which they have never had before.

Any further evaluation of this study should take into
account the goals that were set for it and the difficulties
encountered in achieving them.

According to the American consultants, one of the
major goals of the project was achieved in the assem-
bling, training and holding together for productive work
this group of young social scientists. This was not an
easy task by any means. It was extremely difficult to
assemble this group in the first place, and then to lay
down what was to them an unfamiliar method of re-
search and a repulsive technique of fact-finding, and
have them stick to them.

The German scientists generally insisted on starting
with a theory and proceeding on the basis of that pre-
conceived theory instead of going out to get the facts
and to let the facts speak for themselves. They had to
be trained to work as a team, to share their data after
they got it, and to use the majority principle in their
staff meetings. They hesitated to do the menial legwork
necessary to secure the materials. They tended to argue
with the people. But all these difficulties were ironed
out in the course of the study.

HESE PERSONNEL problems caused the project to

take longer than was initially thought necessary, but
it was necessary to take more time in order to keep
intact the basic goal, mainly that of letting Germans
do the work themselves and solve their own problems.
This was the American approach, to let the finished
work stand as a German product which the Germans

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
could call their own. The American consultants kept the
bulky and sometimes unwieldly project on the right
path and in the right direction. They claim that in
terms of this achievement alone the money and time
of the Americans were more than well spent.

Other beneficial results have already accrued from
this cooperative research project. Many research groups
sent their representatives to Darmstadt to attend work-
shops and secure advice on techniques and problems.
Similar studies have been begun in the Ruhr industrial
areas.

Many citizens in the Darmstadt area have had their
eyes opened, probably for the first time, to the realities
in their environment. If this result could be achieved on
a wider scale throughout Germany by similar surveys
it would be a considerable step forward in the solving
of social problems. Dr. Anderson succinctly observed with
reference to both his American colleagues and the Ger-

man people, “You have to know what your problem is
before you can solve it.”

EARLY EVERY key researcher has found a position

with a German governmental agency or university
faculty in which he is applying and extending the
knowledge and experience he gained on this project.
Four of the authors used their monographs as disserta-
tions for their doctorates.

Many universities students who were employed on
the project are also making further use of their expe-
rience and knowledge. For example, the University of
Frankfurt, through the Institute of Social Research, has
carried out two opinion surveys among the students,
using the workshop method for the training of the stu-
dent-poll-takers. For the first time in the history of the
University of Frankfurt, and probably of any German
university, students were asked what they wanted, what
they liked and how they felt. +END

Higher Living Standards Possible in Germany

The German Federal Republic, with its unutilized
manpower and productive capacity, is probably in a bet-
ter position than almost any other European nation to
make its defense contribution and at the same time en-
joy moderate increases in its living standards, HICOG’s
Office of Economic Affairs reported’ in its annual re-
view of the West German economy.

This optimistic estimate of Germany’s prospects as an
ally of the West is based on the existence of anti-infla-
tion cushions in the form of a steadily expanding labor
force, a reserve of more than 1,000,000 unemployed and
heavy under-utilization of productive capacity in the
consumer goods industries. “However,” the report stated,
“the ease with which resources can be channeled and
raw material bottlenecks broken will depend on the
ability of the government to legislate and implement
selected control measures required in any balanced ex-
pansion of output.”

The Federal Republic entered 1951 with extremely dif-
ficult economic problems growing out of Korea. These
included a foreign exchange crisis with the European
Payments Union (EPU), speculative buying, soaring
prices, threat of falling living standards, drive for higher
wages and danger of inflation.

Corrective steps were taken, and after a mid-year
stagnation, an upsurge of production occurred in the
fall of 1951, which continued through the rest of the
year.

“But the favorable upswing during the autumn could
not allay the fact that the economic advances achieved
during 1951 were clearly the smallest in any year since
the currency reform in 1948,” the review added.

The two outstanding bright spots in the economic pic-
ture for the whole year were the high level of exports,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

which helped to overcome the critical deficit with EPU,
and the record postwar harvest. Elsewhere progress was
not so marked. ,

The review was critical of the failure to divert invest-
ment funds into vital sectors of the economy. It pointed
out that it was not until the year’s end that legislation
was passed channeling DM 1,000,000,000 ($238,000,000)
into basic industry, and this amount did not make
available all that the basic industries require. The
supply of capital for critical. sectors of the economy was
inadequate for rebuilding defense plants and for coal,
steel and power expansion. At the same time, capital
was going into non-essential industries and commercial
enterprises.

“The delayed efforts made by the legislative machine
on the investment aid question points to the need for
much more serious Federal Government attention to
the problem of planning adequate standby controls,” the
review said. “These controls can be held in readiness for
use when necessary to ensure a balanced program of
defense production, civilian investment and consump-
tion during the coming year.” .

The review added, however, that the present combina-
tion of production, financial and trade factors provided
favorable conditions for economic expansion at a high
rate in 1952.

“On the eve of political sovereignty,” it said, “West
Germany in the early months of 1952 seems well
directed toward economic independence.’ The relative
ease with which she approaches this goal is very much
dependent upon the success, or lack thereof, that the
government has in directing a balanced and orderly
process of expansion.”

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 10 ---
War of Words

by Helen McLaughlin

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

United in the common struggle against Communism
and Soviet aggression, we are sending to you, our com-
patriots living behind the Iron Curtain, a message of
solidarity and faith in our early reunion. We are exiled
newspapermen. We have gathered in Berlin, the closest
we can come to you, to inform you that we are active in
keeping alive the cause of liberty for our countries...
In exile we want to serve you. In exile we want to per-
form a duty toward the free world. That duty is to warn
the free peoples of the world that your fate awaits them
unless they check aggression at once; that your fate
awaits them unless you are liberated; and that the policy
of liberation is the only one which can serve a dual pur-
pose. It will reunite you, our countrymen, with the free
world and it will save the free world from becoming a
victim of the same aggression.

Ts spoke Boleslaw Wierzbianski, Polish journalist
exiled in Britain and chairman of the International
Federation of Free Journalists (IFFJ) as he stood before
a RIAS microphone in the auditorium of Berlin’s Tech-
nical University April 25 and broadcast to the peoples
behind the Iron Curtain. On one side of the stage was a
wasted tree, it branches bare except for a few tiny green
shoots — symbol of the death of freedom of information
under Soviet domination.

Broadcast of the message to the peoples ruled by Com-
munism marked the opening of the third annual congress
of the IFFJ, whose members have all fled Communist
domination. Speaker after speaker stepped before the
microphone to tell the shocking story of suppression in
his native country, much of it pieced together from
reports seeping out through the Iron Curtain.

The Berlin congress had a dual purpose: to inform
those living under Soviet domination that the fight for
their eventual release from enslavement was continuing
vigorously in the free world, and to present the situation
of the press and other information media in the Iron
Curtain countries to Western public opinion. To the East,
the exiled journalists directed word of courage; to the
West, they spoke this warning: “No nation can say ‘It
can’t happen to us’ if vigilance over human freedom and
rights is neglected. With freedom of the press safe-
guarded, the majority of people will be informed truth-
fully, will see clearly and will never allow the Com-
munist minority, however ruthless, unscrupulous and
determined it may be, to seize power.”

Mo than 100 IFFJ members attended the congress,
as did many representatives of the Western press

and prominent guests from other fields. Police guarded

AUGUST 1952

the university’s main hall
during the three-day ses-
sion, but there was no
Communist demonstration.

The International Fed-
eration of Free Journalists
of central and eastern Eu-
rope and Balkan and Baltic countries was organized in
1948, and has been waging a “war of words” against
Communism ever since. It unites approximately 1,300
self-exiled journalists from the Soviet-occupied coun-
tries in national associations. Nationalities represented
in the federation are: Albanian, Byelorussian, Bulgarian,
Czech, Slovak, Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian, Polish,
Rumanian, Unkrainian, Yugoslav, Croat, Serb and Slo-
vene. Headquarters of the federation are in London and
its regional unions in the United States, France, Ger-
many, Sweden and Italy.

Journalist members of the IFFJ publish about 150
newspapers and other periodicals for the use of their
compatriots. Its principal objects are: to oppose any
totalitarian doctrines which misrepresent the principle
of freedom of the press; to restore the proper meaning
of traditional ideas of freedom and democracy, truth
and honesty, in relations between individuals as well
as nations; and to defend professional rights of its mem-
bers and facilitate their contacts and collaboration with
Western journalists and the press.

OSEF Josten, Czech journalist and author of the book
J “Oh, My Country”, which tells the story of the Com-
munists coup in Czechoslovakia in February 1948, in
summarizing the situation of the press in the Iron Cur-
tain countries, quoted from Pravda, an official Com-
munist party newspaper in Moscow, some months ago
an article which called the Soviet press “the freest, the
most highly ideological, truthful and principled press in
the world”. Shortly after the article appeared, he said,
Pravda declared that “party organs must rivet the atten-
tion of the editorial staffs to party political and ideol-
ogical questions and make of newspapers truly militant
organs for the pclitical education of the masses.”

Mr Josten, who escaped from Prague after the Com-
munists coup, pointed out that the technique curtailing
the freedom of the press in the Soviet orbit applies not
only to the local press, but involves foreign correspond-
ents and agencies for both incoming and outgoing in-
formation “Both native and foreign pressmen not shar-
ing the regime’s ideology are persecuted morally, mate-
rially, socially and even physically”, he said.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
“In this unhappy land of falsity and contradiction”,
he went on, “foreign correspondents are isolated from
the usual sources of information and even from the
people, denied entry visas or their extension, limited in
their freedom of movement and forced to use only
official handouts and information as the basis of their
reports. Even the facts obtained under such conditions
are censored and delayed in transmission. Charges of
‘biased reporting’ are a daily occurence until the ‘offend-
ing’ writer is either expelled or, seeing the futility of
working under such conditions, asks to be relieved of his
assignment. Arrests, blackmail and sentences for spying
are the latest nightmares in the lives of these foreign
correspondents.”

DRAMATIC illustration of this isolation of foreign

newsmen was the reenactment of the trial of William
Oatis, American correspondent, whom the Communist
court in Prague sentenced to prison a year ago on alleged
espionage charges. With a “cast” of four Czechs, a Ruma-
nian and an American student at Berlin’s Technical Uni-
versity who bore a striking resemblance to Oatis, the
farce of the Oatis trial was reconstructed for radio
listeners on both sides of the Iron Curtain.

Several weeks before the opening of the Berlin ses-
sions, the IFFJ challenged the Communist International

Reenactment of Czechoslovak trial of American newsman
William Oatis on alleged espionage charges.

(Die Neue Zeitung photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Organization of Journalists in Prague to appear at the
congress to answer a charge that they who serve the
Soviets by running their press are participating in the
breakdown of the liberty of millions by contributing to
the latters’ indoctrination in hostile ideologies. Declaring
that by serving as instruments of “russification” those
controlling the Communist press are as much oppressors
of their countrymen as the dread secret police, the con-
gress accused them of guilt of “crimes against the soul
of our peoples which will not be forgotten.”

“Are any of you here?” thundered Mr. Wierzbianski.

“I repeat, are any of you here?”

There was no answer.

HE Free Journalists did not confine themselves to

revealing the shackling of the press and other infor-
mation media in the Iron Curtain countries. They held
a symposium on the abolition of human rights as the
basis for the Soviet economic system, with particular
reference to the recent Moscow Economic Conference
proposals concerning world trade; surveyed various as-
pects of the institution of labor camps; dealt with con-
ditions of the workers; aired the travesties on justice,
the “genocide of the human mind” through complete
control of all creative abilities in fields of science, art,
music and literature and an educational system which
cripples the capacity of independent thinking in youthful
minds; and the elimination of all religions except that
of Communistic interpretation.

Western speakers participating in the congress praised
the IFFJ for the part it is playing in upholding the
moral struggle against the forces of Communist oppres-
sion and cited efforts the Western world is making to
promote eventual freedom for all peoples. All of them
reminded the exiled journalists that the free world is
not fooled by Russian tactics.

Calling Radio Free Europe a “spiritual airlift”, Ad-
miral H. B. Miller, president of the National Committee
for a Free Europe, declared: “Control of the press has
been used for the organization of ignorance and the
promotion of uncertainty and indecision through fear,
up to now. But now the free world is alerted. The news
has leaked out through the Iron Curtain for all to see,
and the free press of all countries can now inform the
free people about the facts. Here is organized bestiality
parading in the disguise of a human social reform — @
‘progressive’ movement.”

AID Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin: “By defending
our freedom here in Berlin we at the same time
defend your freedom. There is no freedom for an in
dividual nation for the freedom of each nation depends |
on the freedom of the others. This also goes for the
Russian nation. We must realize that freedom is nO
present from heaven but that we must work for ity
Freedom is an explosive power which jumps across”
borders.” ;
Continued on page 12 ‘

AUGUST 1952 i

--- Page 12 ---
New Spirit in Old Prisons

By Wilfried Saliger

Former Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

W HEN THE AVERAGE citizen in Germany hears talk
of prisoners, he thinks immediately of prisoners of
war, political internees or war criminals. But if he is told
that roughly one out of every thousand of his fellow
citizens is in jail for such ordinary offenses as burglary,
forgery or fraud, he is likely to shrug his shoulders with
an indifferent “Ach wirklich?” (Oh, is that so?).

One difficulty is evident to anyone who has once seen
a typical German prison: there are practically no modern
institutions in the country. Some of the buildings are
former monasteries, more than 500 years old. Others
were medieval castles, later converted into prisons be-
cause they offered a maximum of security. The great
majority, however, were built during the last century
after the 1790 model of the Eastern State Penitentiary in
Philadelphia, Pa., birthplace of a penal system which
became known as the “Pennsylvania system.” The es-
sential factor in the administration of this system is
segregation.

Przejscie wzbronione!
Terytorium wiezienne!
Nie stosujacy sie do przepisow

beda zatrzymywani *<-:
3ANPEWEHHAR AOPOTA!
THOPEMHAS TEPUTOPHKA

3A HAPYWEHME - APECT
AMPEKTOP TIOPbAbI GEPHAY-O5B.
£

Postwar sign outside the Bernau Prison in Bavaria
warns outsiders in four languages — German, English,

Polish and Russian — to keep off the work grounds of
the prison.

AUGUST 1952

Early in the 20th century, penologists found that this
strict confinement necessarily made the former inmates
unable to readjust themselves to life in a more rapidly
changing world. Statistics proved that many prisoners
who had been in prison once returned, because their
confinement had completely alienated them from normal
living.

ODAY THE principles of this old system have been

practically discarded. Modern penology aims at re-
moving the cause of delinquency, which often enough
is the result of lack of proper training for life. In the last
30 years, prison administrators have abolished the labo-
rious, unproductive prison work in the cells. Instead,
large, modern shops have been built, in which the in-
mates are usefully employed and where they can learn
a trade, enabling them to earn a living after their release.
Along with this development have come classes in basic
education and citizenship, sports, limited prisoner self-
government, and the introduction of individual case-
work as an aid to rehabilitation.

Most of the old institutions in Germany lack the facil-
ities required for this modern system. The primary pri-
son rule at the time they were built was security, not
reformation. Their architects, therefore, thought a few
offices, a kitchen and a small hospital in addition to as
many cells as possible would be all the space an in-
stitution could require. The cells necessarily were very
small.

When progressive penal methods called for shops, mess
halls and classrooms, German prison administrators had
to resort to makeshift arrangements. Some wardens set
up shops in the courtyards,’others used the basements of
cell blocks. For classrooms, they took out the walls
between two or three cells, until overcrowding put an
end to that. The unhygienic practice of eating in the
cells is still followed in many prisons without mess hall
space. Lack of rooms for group work is a continuous
problem in these institutions.

Plumbing systems were unknown when many prisons
were built, and the thickness of their two-foot walls
makes it practically impossible for their installation now.
A modern alarm system could have made unnecessary
many of the excessive security devices which call for
more personnel and maintenance.

EEING these bleak prisons today, it is hard to believe
that sixty years ago they were considered outstand-
ing models which experts from many countries studied

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
and copied. At that time, Germany’ was also a recognized
leader in penology, keeping abreast of development in this
field through the 1920's.

The great setback in the prisons field, as in many
others, came with the Nazis’ advent to power in 1933.
The Nazi philosophy of punishment was one of atone-
ment and vengeance. Their aim in sending offenders to
prison was to isolate them from society for as long as
possible and at a minimum cost to the state, while at
the same time ruthlessly exploiting their manpower. The
indiscriminate confinement of enemies of the Nazi sys-
tem and habitual criminals in the same institution and
cell block put an end to educational prison work in favor
of hard labor and longer hours.

The Nazis did not hesitate to exploit the weaknesses
of the German penal code which dates from 1870. For
example the section on “work houses” permitted dicta-
torial abuses. These “work houses” served originally as
internment places for vagrants and prostitutes without
legal residence, and were under supervision of the police.
Nazism exploited the provision that persons could be
sent there merely by order of the administrative author-
ities; no court sentence was required. When Military
Government abolished the “work houses” after the war,
it found that in one state 1,400 inmates had been held
in them without due process of law.

N THE SPRING of 1945, Military Government took
over badly damaged and almost empty prisons. Most
of the inmates had been released in the closing days of
the war, and the buildings were used for a variety of
purposes, from the housing of refugees to the storing of
military stocks and equipment.

The groundwork for a new prisons system in Germany
was laid in November 1945, with the enactment of Allied
Control Council Directive No. 19. Abolishing the “ven-
geance” attitude in favor of education and reformation,
it emphasized “recognition of the principle that no
human being shall be considered as abandoned or per-

Postwar reforms in prison work include introduction of
spare-time sports activities. Inmates of Bruchsal Prison

verse beyond redemption.” This quadripartite directive
is one of the few Control Council laws still in force. Its
principles were later incorporated into the new prisons
administration laws of the US Zone states.

The next step of Military Government was to close
and abolish the work houses. The supervision of prisons
was withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the prosecutors 5
and established as an independent branch of the admin- —
istration of justice. Regular prisons inspections were ini- t
tiated to ascertain conditions and to check on recognition —
of the inmates’ rights.

Prison education in accordance with modern standards, —
however, had to wait for some time after the war. The
pressing immediate problems, which fully occupied Mil-
itary Government and German prison staffs, was that
of supplying the barest necessities needed to keep the
institutions operating. At a time when the number of
calories in the average German ration hardly met min-_
imum nutritional standards, the food situation was even —
worse for prisons. Heating systems in most of the old
buildings had broken down, and adequate clothing for
inmates was not available.

i

4

All officials with Nazi party affiliation had to be released _
under denazification orders, leaving the prisons staffs
greatly depleted. Through 1947, the administrations were —
busy setting up prison schools and training new person-
nel. 3

ITH THE CURRENCY reform in June 1948 the

material shortages vanished. The new problem,
however, was a critical shortage of funds. German legis-
latures had to care for so many thousands of homeless
and refugees that prisons appropriations were held to
the minimum. This is still the case. Salaries in the Ger-
man prisons service are below those in the police depart-
ment and substantially below the wage standards of
German economy. In many cases, this has proved a
deterrent to promising young officials.

In practical prison work Germany has caught up agai
rapidly. The German prisons of today are making
markable progress in the reformation of their inma
within the bounds set by existing facilities. Educationé
work has been resumed, and vocational training in
limited number of trades is open to unskilled prisone
in all institutions. Upon completion of their appren'
ship, inmates receive certificates from the local tra
organization, without any reference to the fact that
was served in prison.

Sports clubs have proved to be the answer to
of the problems of spare-time activity for prisoners
addition to physical exercise and healthful outdoor acti
ity, they afford the convicts a chance to practice
government by electing club managements and adopting
their own constitutions. The inmates of the Bruch
penitentiary worked overtime voluntarily to prepare th¢
ground for a soccer field and tennis court.

--- Page 14 ---
The penitentiary has also introduced a public address
and radio system with individual headsets in each cell.
Carefully selected radio programs are transmitted every
night from 8 to 10 o’clock and all afternoon on Sundays.
Church call on Sunday morning is by means of a loud-
speaker sounding the ring of church bells. Teachers fre-
quently use the system for lectures when they cannot
assemble the prisoners in one room for lack of space.
The warden relays instructions over it, and by an inter-
ceptive device can cut off certain cell blocks as a dis-
ciplinary measure.

TS PRODUCTIVE work done in German prisons
today is a study in contrasts. While in one cell block
inmates may be found punching buttons by hand, plait-
ing baskets or even doing traditional gluing of paper
bags, other prisoners in the same institution perhaps
work in a well equipped carpenter or blacksmith shop,
operating modern machines and turning out precision
products. Prison-manufactured items are either used
within the institution or sold through regular commer-
cial channels, the proceeds supplementing appropriated
funds of the prisons system.

Prison supervision by the occupation powers practically
ceased with the inception of the Federal Republic in the
fall of 1949, and has since then been restricted to the
control of the care and treatment of prisoners sentenced
by Military Government or Allied High Commission
courts. However, since the US Zone these prisoners are
scattered over some 30 institutions, HICOG prison of-
ficers have access to all major prisons and have devel-
oped a cordial relationship with German wardens and
their staffs.

For prisoners sentenced in US courts American parole
Procedures were introduced in 1949 with a dual structure:
a German board to handle parole hearings and to recom-
mend either the release or continued detention of the
prisoner, and an American board with a German advi-
sory member to act on its recommendation. Release on
Parole as an educational measure and as a last step in
the rehabilitation of a convict was previously unknown
in German penal practice. German authorities effected
releases before expiration of sentence either as an act
of clemency, or by the so-called interruption of sentence.
Under this procedure a prisoner could be released and
put on probation for any time the prison authorities saw
fit, even beyond the expiration of the original sentence.

FTER GERMAN officials had observed American

Parole practices in Germany for two years, the
federal government appropriated DM 98,000 ($23,324) for
a “trial run” of parole in five court districts. For the
first time in Germany, full-time parole advisers have
been employed in these areas by a government-support-
ed prisons association, to supervise the parolees and as-
sist them in their readjustment to life in freedom. The
Tesult was a lower than average rate of recidivism.

AUGUST 1952

Both See ‘ 4
Penitentiary wing of Bremen-Oslebshausen Prison, built
in 1914, is one of most modern prison buildings in Ger-
many. Clothing still consists mainly of dyed wartime
stocks.

There is strong hope now that the forthcoming revi-
sion of the German penal code will include provisions
for a parole system with the decisive characteristic of
release to full freedom upon expiration of the original
sentence.

The second outstanding American contribution to Ger-
man progress in prisons administration was the inau-
guration of an interchange of ideas and experiences, a
particularly important factor in a field where personal
ideas may govern the lives of hundreds of people. Under
the State Department’s exchanges program, 17 German
prison officials have, since 1949, gone to the United
States for three months to study the American federal
and state prison systems. Plans are also being made to
have seven German students of penology study one
term in the United States.

On the other leg of this program, five American prison
experts, including State Commissioner of Correction
Richard A. McGee from California, came to Germany to
survey existing conditions and offer their advice. Mr.
McGee wrote an extensive report on the administration
of German prison system which, German officials admit,
“could be the magna charta of our future work, if there
were more money.”

SIMILAR State Department sponsored exchanges

program sent six German prison officials to Switzer-
land and another six to England for one month, while a
Swiss reformatory director visited German institutions
for a like period.

Within Germany, HICOG prison officers have ap-
proached the exchanges idea in a less formal, but equally
effective, way. Hearing clemency cases in the many in-
stitutions of their areas required them to be “on the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Prisoners, working mostly by hand, repaired much of the
wartime damage at the Bremen-Oslebshausen Prison,
dating from 1870.

(All photos from Zeitschrift fuer Strafvollzug)

road” a good deal. As they go by car from one prison
to the next, they often take along German wardens or
other officers who would like to visit another prison for
a day’s shop talk. This simple method has proved an
excellent way of widening the experience of German of-
ficials and has greatly strengthened personal ties be-
tween American and German officers.

Emphasis by Americans assigned to the prison field
in Germany has been concrete work with the rank and

file of prison staffs, rather than on high-sounding the-
ories. Since guards and foremen have the closest contact
with the prisoners, HICOG has striven to give these
minor officials a better understanding of their task with-
in the overall rehabilitation of the convict. HICOG ini-
tiated, and for two years published, a magazine known
as “Zeitschrift fuer Strafvollzug” (The Prison Journal)
as a “platform” for discussion of day-to-day prison
problems*.

NOTHER essential HICOG assistance project is still

in the planning stage. A conference on prison
architecture, being sponsored by HICOG, will bring to-
gether prison officials, architects, representatives of the
state finance ministries and foreign experts in an effort
to prepare a long-term building program for new prisons,
One objective is that the old fortress-like German jails
will gradually disappear or serve only as maximum
security institutions, while fenced barracks camps will
be built to house the majority of prisoners. Some Ger-
man states, Hamburg, for instance, have already found
this new-type prison better for educational purposes,
more hygienic and less expensive.

The German prisons system still have a long way to
go. The architectural conference will plan in terms of
25 or perhaps 30 years. The average citizen will have to
realize that the prisoners of today will inevitably be his
free fellow citizens of tomorrow. Some day it may make
all the difference to him whether the convict has been
rehabilitated to be a useful member of society, or
whether he has experienced the vengeance of authority
and once in freedom turns to vengeance of his own.

+END

*See “Germans Take Over HICOG Publication” in Information
Bulletin, March 1952.

War of Words

Continued from Page 8

Irving Brown brought greetings of the American Fed-
eration of Labor “in this spirit of the ideological offen-
sive”, and stated that the “support and solidarity of the
great masses of peoples of my country” were behind the
current struggle. “I am also quite certain”, he said, “that
the newspapermen of America join with me in my per-
sonal salutations to your courage and determination in
having held aloft the torch of liberty”.

Reminding his listeners that “the more Stalin has, the
more he wants”, Raymond Aron of Le Figaro, Paris
newspaper, warned that the Russian dictator’s demands
must be met with firmness and resolution, not by war.
“We are here in Berlin, richer in symbol than any other
European city — symbol of Hitlerite aggression, symbol
of totalitarian war, and now symbol of a free Germany
— not by compulsion but from a desire to be the com-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

panion of other European countries. Europe will not
have to chose between Hitler and Stalin, but between a
free Germany and Russia — the Germany of Goethe, let
us say, and the Russia of Tolstoy.”

Declared Malcolm Muggeridge of the Daily Telegraph,
London newspaper: “It is often said that we have no
positive position to offer as an alternative to the fana- P:
ticism which our enemies are able to generate among —
their adherents. This is not true. We have the mos!
splendid of all causes. All that is required is to expount
it; to stand by it; to be ready, if necessary, to die for
What we stand for — all of us, irrespective of nation:
ality, religion, race or class — represents the dynam(
out of which all that is greatest and most enduring
human achievement has emerged.”

The congress unequivocally told the world: “No mal
can live at peace while his brother lives in fear of @
unexpected knock at his door.”

--- Page 16 ---
Free University Grows

| A MESSAGE read at the laying of the cornerstone

for a combination library-lecture hall July 24 at
Berlin’s Free University, Samuel Reber, acting US High
Commissioner, said the new structure “will advance
the university’s struggle in behalf of universal truth and
universal freedom to learn.”

Construction of the library-lecture hall is financed
from a $1,309,500 grant from the Ford Foundation, an
American philanthrophic organization. Also provided for
in the grant are the Mensa Building, which is under
construction, the establishment of the Free University’s
extension service and other progressive educational pro-
jects.

Another message was received from Henry J. Keller-
mann, director of the Office of German Affairs, US
Department of State, in Washington, saying: “Please
accept my warmest wishes for the cornerstone laying
of your new library. Built with the help of American
citizens who cherish and share with you the belief in
academic freedom and unfettered research, may this
library, like the new Public Library, serve all who be-
lieve that truth and freedom are inseparable.”

HE MESSAGES from Mr. Reber and Mr. Keller-

mann were read by Prof. Hans von Kress, rector
of the Free University, who spoke. Participating in the
ceremony also were Cecil B. Lyon, director of the Berlin
Element, HICOG, and Dr. Walter Schreiber, deputy
mayor of Berlin.

Prof. Franz Neumann, who is on leave as professor of
political science at Columbia University in New York
City and is now serving as guest professor at the Law
School of the Free University, made one of the prin-
cipal addresses. A former special consultant on political
science and university problems for HICOG, Professor
Neumann has worked with the Ford Foundation in
completing arrangements with the Free University for
an exchange program under which the Free University
and Columbia University would exchange professors for
one or more semesters.

A document, deposited in the cornerstone, was read
by Dr. Edwin Redslob, deputy rector of the Free Univer-
sity. Following the delivery of the speeches and messages,
several of the officials attending the ceremony struck
symbolic blows with a mason’s hammer on the corner-
stone.

The new building will have an auditorium with a
seating capacity of 1,300 and four smaller rooms avail-
able for regular university lectures. Two of the smaller
rooms will seat 500 persons each and the other two will
have 250 seats each. The library will contain approx-
imately 750,000 volumes, about 75,000 of which have
already been received through donations from the
“Books for Freedom” campaign, sponsored in the United
States by the National Conference of Christians and
Jews, and through private purchases and grants.

* * *

Text of the message sent by Mr. Reber follows.

N THE HISTORY of all great institutions, as with

individuals and nations, there are moments which are
set off from the daily round of events by reason of the
extraordinary influence which they exert upon future
developments within those institutions. The Free Univer-
sity of Berlin is such a great institution, and the event
being observed today signalizes one of those moments.

It is more than a mere cornerstone laying that is being
marked with all appropriate formalities in Berlin today.
In a longer view, I am sure, today’s ceremonies will as-
sume deep and far-reaching significance as the outward.
visible signs of a momentous turning point in the story
of the Free University. The construction of a combina-
tion library-lecture hall will infuse into the University
a new breath of life. It will open vast new fields of
potential activity in the service of free democratic educa-
tion. It will provide some of the substance, some of the
material facilities required for the realization of these
new potentialities.

The grant which makes possible the construction of
the Free University’s new library-lecture hall was set

Model of future library-lecture hall, being constructed at the Free University with assistance of a Ford Foundation
grant, is shown at the left, while at the right Dr. Redslob deposits document in the cornerstone.
(BE HICOG photos by Schubert)

--- Page 17 ---
Cecil B. Lyon, director of Berlin Element, HICOG, strikes
a symbolic blow on the cornerstone during the ceremony.

aside by the Ford Foundation, an American philantrophic
organization which supports scientific, educational and
charitable projects throughout the world. Throughout
negotiations preceding the formal announcement of the
grant, Mr. John J. McCloy, as US High Commissioner
for Germany, consistently took the fore in efforts direct-
ed toward assuring its allocation to the Free University.

Mr. McCloy was acting in the realization that the Free
University has already, in four short years of life,
achieved a brilliant record of accomplishment, a record
which stands as an example and a symbol to the un-
counted millions, in the oppressed East as well as the
free West, who serve the creed of untrammeled educa-

tional opportunity. In this sense the new structure whose
cornerstone is being laid in Berlin today will be an in-
centive and a spur; by strengthening the Free Univer-
sity it will advance the University’s struggle in behalf
of universal truth and universal freedom to learn. As a
presentation from an American organization, it will also
stand as a monument to the unflagging interest of the
American people in Berlin and Berlin’s problems. +END

Wretchedness in East Berlin

“East Berlin under Communist administration is a
city devoured by vultures,” according to Momrajawong
Seni Preamej, former Thai prime minister who returned
to Bangkok, Thailand, recently after a session in West
Berlin of the International Congress of Jurists.

Information reaching Berlin indicated that Mr. Seni
made the statement in a press interview. It was quoted
by the Bangkok Post.

Mr. Seni said he spoke from first-hand knowledge.
Before he subscribed to a series of Congress resolutions
denouncing the East German Communist regime, he
stated, he insisted on visiting East Berlin to see for
himself.

What he saw convinced him, he told the Bangkok
newspaper, of the ruthlessness of Communist admin-
istrators. West Berlin by comparison is a “peaceful
heaven,” he said.

Traveling incognito into East Berlin, Mr. Seni saw the
wretchedness of people living under Communist rule.
Wartime debris still littered the streets while admin-
istrators led “fast lives” and many reported their pro-
perty and personal belongings had been expropriated by
Communist officials. “City devoured by vultures,” said
the former prime minister, was the best description for
what he saw.

Following his East Berlin visit, Mr. Seni wholeheart-
edly endorsed the resolutions denouncing the Communist
regime.

More books were donated recently to the Free University of Berlin. (left photo) Donald A. Ostrander (right), chief of
the Berlin CARE office, presents a gift of 131 books to Prof. Hans von Kress, rector of the university. Purchased
with a donation of $1,000 from the Doris Duke Foundation of New York, the books deal mainly with medical and
biological subjects. Also shown examining the books are Prof. Wieland Schmidt (left), director of the Free Univer-
sity Library, and Dr. Carl G. Anthon, higher education adviser, HICOG Berlin Element. (right photo) A gift of

3,000 books, purchased with a grant of $20,000 from the Rockefeller-Foundation, are presented by Dr. Anthon (cen-
ter) to Professor Schmidt (right) as Dr. Luise von Schwarzkoppen, deputy director of the library looks on.

--- Page 18 ---
Fulbright Agreement

HE BENEFITS of the Fulbright Act, under which

the United States has working arrangements with
more than 20 countries of the world for the exchange
of students and professors, was extended to Germany
with the signing of an agreement for the financing of
the educational exchange between the United States
and the Federal Republic.

The Fulbright Agreement, signed July 18 in Bonn by
John J. McCloy, then US High Commissioner for Ger-
many, and Dr. Konrad Adenauer, German federal chan-
cellor, provides the equivalent of up to $1,000,000 a year
for five years to finance the exchange. The Fulbright Act
authorizes the US Secretary of State to use foreign cur-
rencies and credits realized from the sale of surplus US
property, shipped abroad during the war, for this pur-
pose.

Between 400 and 500 Germans and Americans will
participate in the program each year. They will include
200-250 American university students and professors,
teachers of secondary schools, and research scholars who
will now have the opportunity for study visits in Ger-
many. The same number of Germans in similar cat-
egories will be able to attend American educational in-
stitutions. Under the agreement, signed in Bonn, the
funds will also be used for financing travel of Germans
to the United States for study visits.

T THE BONN ceremony, Mr. McCloy said in a state-

ment that the signing “is another indication of our
growing partnership.” He added: “It offers greater op-
portunities in building the
bridge of cultural under-
standing and cooperation
between our two nations...
To me, the Fulbright Pro-
gram is a significant means
of providing and strength-
ening the free intercourse
of ideas and information
between participating indi-
viduals and institutions. I
am particularly happy that
it will enable more Amer-
icans to appreciate, share
and make a contribution to
Germany's rich educational
and cultural life.”

The agreement provides
funds to continue the ac-
ademic exchange projects
between the United States
and Germany which have
been carried out since 1948
under the Exchange of Per-
Sons Program conducted by

AUGUST 1952

the US Government. This means the same number of
German students and teacher exchangees will be sent to
the United States under the Fulbright Program as has
been sent there during the current year. This program
will be in addition to the regular Exchange of Persons
Program carried out by the Office of the US High Com-
missioner, which will send almost 2,000 German leaders,
trainees and teen-agers to the United States next year.
more than 1,000 German university students and 600
professors and teacher trainees have spent a year in
American institutions of higher learning.

The Fulbright Agreement sets up a binational agency
known as the United States Educational Commission
in the Federal Republic of Germany, which is rec-
ognized by the two governments as the organization
established to facilitate the administration of such
an educational program. It will be financed by funds
obtained in accordance with the Surplus Property Sales
Agreement of Jan. 23, 1948, between the German Bi-
zonal Economic Council and the United States, and with
the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany,
proclaimed on May 23, 1949.

The Board of Foreign Scholarship in the United
States, under the general administration of the Secretary
of State, is responsible for the final selection of partic-

Continued on Page 19

Mr. McCloy (center) signs Fulbright Agreement while
looking on is Dr. Ralph Burns (left), chief of HICOG’s
Exchanges Staff. Also signing a copy of the agreement
is Chancellor Adenauer (right).

(HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
A Day with the Us

: TH Luar TT ALLL 4 ;
eat ie a pee ‘ As is customary at all important US diplo-
ee ee 4 Rs matic installations outside the United States, the
t nt he headquarters of the Office of the US High Com-
eae: Co Uae missioner in Mehlem is guarded by a detachment

of the US Marine Corps. Composed of enlisted
men, many of whom are veterans of the Korean
fighting, the detachment keeps a 24-hour watch
at the HICOG office building, safeguarding its
security, checking identifications of visitors and
inspecting offices for security purposes. Off duty,
the Marines may don civilian clothes, engage
in recreational activities and live the normal
life of an American in the vicinity of the Ger-
man capital.

ai at =e
ss at mt

— — Richard Jones (left)

Master Sergeant Guilano, NCO in charge of unit. eer, congratulates!

\

Some of detachment in their dining room.

Dormitory is known as Basilone Hall. Neatness is required in the sleeping quarters in hall. Members of deli

--- Page 20 ---
larines in Mehlem

The detachment arrived in Mehlem Feb. 15
under command of Master Sergeant Guiseppe
Guilano, Jr., of Mansfield, Mass. On duty at
Mehlem it is supervised by Jack B. Minor,
chief State Department security officer for Ger-
many. Police duty for other US installations,
houses and traffic in the Bonn Enclave remain
the responsibility of the US Army’s Military
Police assigned there.

A photographic record of a day’s activities
of the members of the Marine detachment was
made for the Information Bulletin by Norbert
Gassner, photographer for the Information Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

}HICOG security of- a. a ; : ;
on promotion. y of Filing cabinet being given security check. Class to refresh men on care and use of pistols.

'do their own washing Recreation off duty at a nearby swimming pool. Game of cribbage is enjoyed in evening.

--- Page 21 ---
Impressions and views of six months in the Soviet Zone of Germany and previously in the Soviet Union were
described to Western correspondents by a 32-year-old Russian engineer after he recently sought political asylum
in Western Germany. Eugeny Sergeyevich Volchansky, born in Leningrad and educated as a mechanical engineer,
had progressed rapidly in his profession in his native city and in Odessa until he was offered in 1951 a job with the
Soviet armed forces in Germany. Twice he refused but accepted the third time under pressure. After working six
months in Germany where he directed the work of 150 East Germans, he decided to seek asylum in the West. At
a press conference in Bad Godesberg July 15, he made the following statement.

Life in the Soviet Zone

By Eugeny Sergeyevich Volchansky

HE EAST Germans lack any idealistic or nationalistic

inducements to fight for Soviet Russia. Therefore, the
Stalinists and their East German puppets are borrowing
methods used by the Soviet Army: rigid discipline and
mechanized minds will characterize the East German
Army.

As for the principal reason behind the creation of the
buffer zone between East and West Germany, I believe
this was done to seal off East Germany to prevent young
men from escaping conscription. This reason is far more
likely than their announced one of preventing spies and
agents from entering East Germany.

Soviet military and civilian workers in Germany are
indoctrinated to believe that they are living in enemy
territory among people who hate the Soviets and use
every occasion to harm the Soviet Union. Every German
is considered by the Soviets as a capitalist agent, and all
connections between Soviet and German personnel, ex-
cept those who have official contact, are strictly pro-
hibited.

We a policy of real friendship followed in Germany,
the result would bring greater harm to the Soviets
than the present isolation policy. Suppose that the So-
viets allowed their people to mix freely with the Ger-
mans. Very soon the Russians would learn how far high-
er standards of living are in the West than in the
Soviet Union, They would learn of the freedoms people
enjoy, even now, in East Germany. Naturally, they would
compare these features with their lives in the USSR,
and the Soviets cannot afford comparisons. Were Soviet
lies thoroughly exposed to Russians stationed in Ger-
many there would definitely be a total spiritual disinte-
gration among all ranks.

Another equally important reason why the Soviets bar
Russian-German friendships is because those Germans
who still believe that the Soviet system might bring im-
provements for the working classes would rapidly be-
come disillusioned had they the opportunity to talk
to Russians and learn of the incredibly difficult con-
ditions in the Soviet Union and to hear of the worthless-
ness and the untold costs to the Russian people of the
so-called “achievements” the Soviet regime has been

INFORMATION BULLETIN

able to make through the 35 years of its existence. All
such believing Germans would soon become bitter en-
emies of the Soviet system.

Although I do not believe that there will be war for
many years, since the idea of war is so completely re-
pugnant to the Russian people, I believe that Russians
would fight if they were convinced that they were again
defending their homeland. And because the Soviets have
the greatest propaganda apparatus known to man, it is
highly conceivable that they could be so convinced.

Soviet leaders today do not concern themselves with
the theory and practice of classic Communism. The
false lures of achieving better conditions for humanity
through Communism are employed now only to get
sympathizers in foreign countries — the starry-eyed
idealists, the miserable and oppressed, and the misguided
dupes. The Russian people have had Communism for 35
years, and they are thoroughly fed up with it.

Stalin desires others to fight for his objectives. If he
decides, however, that a favorable time for war has
come, he will then use Soviet troops.

Any international dissension between Western nations,
any apparent weakness in any individual nation is seized
upon by the Soviets. Each possibility is thoroughly ex-
ploited for Soviet ends. If these dissensions ever become
serious enough to give the Soviets the advantage, then
war would erupt.

One deterrent to the Soviets’ starting a shooting war —
and a very important one — is the fact that revolution
within the USSR would be possible under war condi-
tions. Today, revolution is unthinkable because of the
entanglement of controls, exercised over the people. In
wartime, a disturbed and resentful people would be able
to liberate themselves upon receiving arms.

If the cold war lasts, and a hot war is averted, there is
a long-range possibility that revolution without war can
occur in the Soviet Union. This can only happen if the
people can organize themselves, find adequate leadership,
run frightful risks and arm themselves.

Meanwhile the Soviet authorities continue frantically
to rearm and prepare for the favorable advantage that
will allow them to wage aggressive war.” +END

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 22 ---
RIAS’ Effectiveness Evident in Poland

RIAS, the powerful radio station operated by HICOG
in Western Berlin, often learns of its effectiveness be-
hind the Iron Curtain by reports of Communist-inspired
attempts to ridicule it. Recently a refugee arrived in
Free Berlin from Poland and gave the following account
of a circus he visited in Warsaw in June (interviewer's
questions in italics).

I have visited many performances of different cir-
cuses all over Europe but this one in Warsaw was the
best of all. You can seldom see such a perfect artistic
show. The tightrope walkers and the trapez artists
were excellent. The girls were so-o-o nice... Such a pity
they all belonged to the ZMP (Polish Communist Party).

I don’t understand. What does a circus have to do with the
ZMP? How do you know they belonged to the ZMP?

Before every performance a girl came out and an-
nounced: “Comrade... from the ZMP will do an exqui-
site act on the trapeze,”or something similar. The fact
that she was a member of the ZMP was always men-
tioned.

Were any of the other performances influenced by politics?

What do you mean influenced? Half the program was
political propaganda. Especially one number I recall
distinctly. It was so silly.

Well, go ahaed, tell us about it.

A man appeared in the ring dressed up to look “Amer-
can” — hair too long, pants too short, very gay striped
socks, tremendous crepe soles and a jacket also much 100
long. He looked just like every kid in Poland today has
been taught to picture an American. Naturally a very
unpleasant face had to go along with it.

This man, talking through his nose in “imitation” of
the American accent, spoke very convincingly and pos-
itively about the wonderful work Americans are doing
all over the world. He was especially content with the
work of RIAS, the Western Berlin Radio station. Waving
a bundle of dollar bills, he told the spectators that he
was so content with RIAS because he could buy with
his money not only the people themselves but also their
opinions.

Suddenly a voice was heard from a radio. Naturally
it turned out to be RIAS-Berlin. It brought the latest
news about kidnappings from the Western sectors of
Berlin. The “American’s” face changed for a while to
become shocked and regretful. But in the same instant
another voice from a second radio in the ring announced
itself as Radio Berlin. The latter spoke of the “well-
deserved arrest” of dangerous elements paid by Amer-
ican imperialists to disturb the peace of the democratic
countries. These people were to be legally punished.

AUGUST 1952

And what did the ‘American’ say to that?

He naturally became very excited. With his dollar bills
he tried to quiet this voice — in vain. He became ter-
rified when the voice of the Radio Berlin revealed all the
atrocities committed by the USA and asked why RIAS
didn’t speak about the thousands of helpless women and
children murdered in Korea and why RIAS didn’t men-
tion the horrifying germ warfare in Korea.

The “American” became more and more upset. He
waved his dollar bills wildly and tried desperately to
shut up the “Voice of Justice.” To make the whole scene
still more ridiculous and to make the spectators laugh,
a man acting as a clown and idiot was also in the ring
and he made constant interruptions to embarrass the
“American.” And when the radio came to the accusa-
tions of the germ warfare, the American could no lon-
ger stand to be thus exposed and was driven in confu-
sion from the ring.

How did the people react during this program?

They were extremely quiet. They didn’t even laugh
where one would expect it. You got the impression that
they were just waiting until the nonsense was over.

Did the “American” appear again during the evening or was
the number about RIAS his only performance?

At the end of the performance all the actors appeared
in the ring again and presented themselves to the au-
dience to obtain the final applause. With the actors ap-
peared also the director of the circus, who gave a speech.
He said how proud he was of his young avant-garde,
healthy and strong of soul and body. “This is our ZMP-
youth,” he said. All the actors were wearing ZMP-bad-
ges. Then the “American,” a living caricature, appeared as
an unpleasant contrast. His dollar bills had disappeared.
He was intimidated and very shy. He knew he had lost.

Poor fellow, Anything else interesting about the circus?

No. nothing special. It was just like every other cir-
cus. Oh, yes! There were no animals. Just the few dogs
for the clowns. But how should these poor animals live
when there wasn’t even enough horse meat for the people
themselves? +END

Fulbright Agreement

Continued from Page 15

ipants in this program. The ten-member board is com-
posed of representatives of cultural and educational
groups.

Grants are usually made for a period of one academic
year with the possibility of renewal for a second year
in exceptional cases. The grants vary in amount. Such
factors as the cost of living, the candidates’ professional
level and availability of funds from other sources are
taken into account. +tEND

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
In and Around Germany

European Festival in Passau

Passau, noted as one of the most
beautiful cities of the world, is the
site of a European Festival, opening
on Aug. 30 and continuing through
Sept. 21 with presentations from
many nations to illustrate the cul-
tural heritage of western Europe
and to demonstrate the necessity of
political union for the preservation
of this heritage.

Preparation for the festival was
made by the Passau committee com-
posed of civic and cultural leaders
of the city. On behalf of the com-
mittee, Dr. Stefan Billinger, mayor
of Passau, invited the foreign mis-
sions represented in western Ger-
many to participate. HICOG, through
its Public Affairs Field Center in
Regensburg, contributed advice and
assistance.

Among the scheduled cultural per-
formances are organ concerts by
Olivier Messaien of France and Floor
Peters of Belgium, appearances by
the Regensburger Domspatzen, the
Sistine Chapel Choir from the Va-
tican and the Marcel Courant Choir
from France; a performance by the
Amsterdam Ballet troope; a_per-
formance of the “Marriage of Figaro”
featuring Domgraf Fassbaender, a
noted German Figaro; a chamber
music concert by the Budapest
String Quartet under the auspices
of the America House in Passau; a
folk dance evening and a native
costume display under the auspices
of the German Ethnological Congress
with Swiss and Austrian participa-
tion.

Prominent speakers include Dr.
Eugen Kogon, president of the Ger-
man Council of the European Move-
ment; Dr. Hanns Joachim Unger,
secretary general of the Europa Be-
wegung; Koos Vorrink, vice pre-
ident of the Dutch European Move-
ment; Dr. Ernest Stefan, secretary
general of the Pan-European Move-
ment; Matthias Foecher, second

INFORMATION BULLETIN

chairman of the German Federation
of Trade Unions; Prof. Andre Tole-
dano, secretary general of the Centre
Europeenne, and A. W. Stromenger-
Conrady of Switzerland.

Exchanges Program

More than 500 Germans, mostly
teenagers and students, journeyed to
the United States during the later
part of July and early August as
part of the program of HICOG’s Ex-
changes Staff in conjunction with
several American sponsoring or-
ganizations.

Two hundred German teenagers
sailed July 23 from Genoa, Italy, to
spend one year with American “fos-
ter” families in the United States,
under sponsorship of the National
Grange, American Farm Bureau
Federation and the Brethren Service
Commission.

Another group of 121 teenagers
sailed from Le Havre, France, Aug. 1,
to spend one year with American
“foster” families under sponsorship
of the National Catholic Welfare
Conference, the American Field

Service Committee and the Kiwanis
Club.

During the first week in August,
104 students and 82 teenagers de-
parted for the United States. The
group of 82 teenagers, under spon-
sorship of the American Field Serv-
ice and the Brethren Service Com-
mission will live with American
families for one year. The students
will spend one academic year in
American colleges and universities
under programs arranged by the In-
stitute of International Education’s
Experiment in International Living.

Six German agricultural informa-
tion specialists left Aug. 7 for a four-
month visit in the United States to
study how local newspapers and
radio stations service families in
rural areas. In the group are Karl
Schumann and Dr. Fritz Meske of
Frankfurt; Willi Wolling of Drei-
eichenhain, Hesse; Ruth Echle of
Stuttgart; Dr. Wolfgang Clauss of
Kiel, and August Hock of Duessel-
dorf.

Berlin Cultural Festival

“Porgy and Bess,” colorful Amer-
ican folk opera, and the New York
City Ballet are the leading American
contributions to the 1952 Berlin Cul-
tural Festival, scheduled for Aug. 31
through Sept. 30.

Fifty-four members of the Sherwood Eddy Seminar, American research and

study group, arrived in Berlin’s Tempelhof Airport July 18 to meet US
representatives, German city officials, labor union and civic leaders. The
leader is Sherwood Eddy, American author and lecturer who has been spon-

soring European tours by similar groups for 40 years.

20

(HICOG-Berlin photo)

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 24 ---
Premiere night in Berlin for the
New York City Ballet will be Friday
evening, Sept. 3, at the Schiller
Theater, with five additional matinee
and evening performances during
the next four days. Premiere of
“Porgy and Bess” will be on Tues-
day evening, Sept. 16, at the Titania
Palast. Twelve additional evening
and matinee performances are sched-
uled.

The entire stage setting for the
European tour of “Porgy and Bess”
is being constructed in Berlin under
the direction of Wolfgang Roth, Amer-
ican scenic designer, who is a native
Berliner. Later the staging will be
sent to Vienna for the European
premiere of “Porgy and Bess” on
Sept. 3. It will be returned to Berlin
for the Cultural Festival and on
Sept. 29 will be sent to London.

Other American attractions at the
festival will be Astrid Varnay and
Polyna Stoska, American sopranos
of the Metropolitan Opera. Miss
Varnay, who participated in last
year’s Berlin Festival, will sing the
title role in the opera “Tristan and
Isolde” on Sept. 8. Miss Stoska will
sing the lead roles in the operas
“Macht des Schicksals,” on Sept. 9,
and “Ariadne auf Naxos” on Sept. 12.

Eugene Ormandy, American sym-
phonic conductor will be the guest
conductor of the RIAS Symphony
Orchestra on Sept. 24 at the Titania
Palast. Robert Casadesus will be the
piano soloist.

An additional American attraction
will be an exhibition of American
arts and crafts and a textile fabrics
exhibit, which were prepared in
Washington, D.C., with the coopera-
tion of the National Gallery of Art.
They will be on display during
September at the Berlin America
House.

During the past two years the
New York ballet has gained recogni-
tion in London and Paris. George
Balachine, artictic director and chore-
ographer, will accompany the ballet,
which features such classic balleri-
nas as Maria Tallchief, Nora Kaye,
Janet Reed, Tanaquil Le Clerq,
Diana Adams, and a male contingent
of dancers including Andre Eglev-

AUGUST 1952

Senator Homer E. Capehart (right) of Indiana and Mrs. Capehart are greeted
by Cecil B. Lyon, director of Berlin Element, HICOG, on their arrival in
Berlin Aug. 7. Senator Capehart, member of the US Senate’s Banking and
Commerce Committee, visited Berlin to study information activities carried
on by RIAS, Die Neue Zeitung and other US installations in the city.

(HICOG-Berlin photo)

sky, Nicholas Magallanes,
Laing and many others.

Hugh

“Porgy and Bess” is based on the
story “Porgy” by Dorothy and Du-
Bose Heyward, the music is by
George Gershwin, and the lyrics by
DuBose Heyward and Ira Gershwin.
The title roles are played by Wil-
liam Warfield and Leontyne Price.
Cab Calloway, American orchestra
leader and vocalist, will sing the
new lyrics of the famous song, “It
Ain’t Necessarily So.”

Coal-Steel Revamp Speeded

Two problems arising in the re-
organization of the German coal,
iron and steel industries were settled
in an exchange of letters between
the Allied High Commission and the
Federal Government. The agreement
was announced July 23 with the
publication of three letters.

In the first letter, dated July 12,
the federal chancellor put on record
the agreements reached between the
Allied and German experts on the
final procedure for liquidation of the
German Coal Sales Organization
(DKV) and for its replacement by a
decentralized coal sales system.

21

In the second letter, dated July 16,
the federal chancellor recorded an
agreement reached among the Allied
economic advisers, representatives of
the Federal Government and the
liquidators of the Vereinigte Stahl-
werke AG in Liquidation for the re-
organization of the coal and steel in-
dustries in the Duisburg-Hamborn
area and for the reorganization of
the coal mines in the Gelsenkirchen,
Bochum and Dortmund areas and of
the Erin mine.

In the third letter, dated July 21,
the Allied High Commission con-
firmed its acceptance of the two
agreements. In order to give effect
to the plans for liquidation of the
DKV, changes are to be made in
Regulation No.17 under HICOM Law
No. 27. HICOM noted that the Fed-
eral Government will shortly issue a
regulation reforming the rebate sys-
tém in the steel industry.

Women’s Civic Responsibility
Recognition of women’s civic re-
sponsibility in the fields of econom-
ics, politics, public administration
and public opinion was emphasized
at a week-long conference sponsored

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
by the German Association of Busi-
ness and Professional Women in
Hamburg in mid-June.

Approximately 200 representatives
of business and professional women’s
clubs from 19 cities of western Ger-
many took part in the panel dis-
cussions, lectures and round-table
discussions. American, Swedish and
British guests included Mrs. Mildred
Allport, HICOG women’s affairs ad-
viser, and Miss Grace Rollestone,
chief of women’s affairs, British Cul-
tural Staff, Wahnerheide.

The week’s program offered a
wide range of topics, such as “The
Professional Woman and Politics,”
“The Professional Woman and Pub-
lic Opinion,” and “Women in Jour-
nalism.” Stressed throughout the
sessions and discussion groups was
the continuing importance of tol-
erance and open-mindedness. Re-
ports were presented by the various
German clubs on work accomplished
in past years in familiarizing busi-
ness and professional women with
the opportunities open to them to

American and German officials attended the roof-raising ceremony July 18

play an active, influential role in the
activities of a democratic state.

Dr. Margarete Groewel, delegate
to the German Federal Parliament,
urged women to acquaint themselves
with the functioning of represent-
ative governing bodies on village,
city and state levels. Dr. Groewel
stated, “We cannot afford to treat
the young sapling democracy as we
have been doing for the past few
years. It has been given us by the
Allies to nurture and the German
woman should do her share in its
cultivation. That is why she should
be trained in civics and matured for
civic tasks.”

Dr. Helene Weber, also a parlia-
ment delegate, stated that the fail-
ure of German women to take an
active part in public affairs had
played an important role in the
Nazi’s accession to power. She
stressed that had the women been
properly educated in civic affairs
and had they taken their proper

Place in the activities of the com-
munity, the hysterical acceptance of

os

for the ECA/MSA housing project in the Feuerbach suburb of Stuttgart.
Shown in the foreground are Patrick Mallon (center, dark suit), American
consul general in Stuttgart, talking with Newton S. Friedman, labor adviser
of the Consulate General. At right are Dr. Arnulf Klett (dark suit), mayor of
Stuttgart, and Wilhelm Keil, former president of the Wuerttemberg-Baden

legislature.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(AMCONGEN photo by Schwarz)

22

Hitler and his program by the Ger-
man women could not have oc-
curred.

Dr. Weber emphasized that, “It is
the task of the women to advance
the idea of European unification and
to make it a real and living thing
to the youth of Germany. But before
this can be accomplished, it must be
a living thing to the German women
themselves. Women should be ac-
quainted with the Bonn Basic Law,
the Schuman Plan and all important
developments in today’s economic
and cultural life.” Dr. Weber as-
serted that women’s associations
and schools can provide invaluable
assistance in reaching this goal.

Other speakers urged the women
to discard the “Politics-do-not-con-
cern-me” attitude and _ recognize
their civic responsibility lest they,
through disuse, lose it. They pointed
out that clever campaigns and ruses,
camouflaged as peace societies, are
doing their utmost to attract the
German woman. Consequently, un-
less she is able to judge for herself
the validity and sincerity of these
campaigns, and unless her knowl-
edge of public affairs is mature, she
will be carried away by emotion

rather than reach her decision
through discernment and_ sound
judgment.

10,000 Youths at GYA Camps

Nearly 10,000 German youngsters
are attending summer camps spon-
sored or assisted by United States
Forces in Germany this year, ac-
cording to registration reports re-
ceived at European Command Head-
quarters in Heidelberg. EUCOM of-
ficials connected with the American
Armed Forces Assistance Program
to German Youth Activities (GYA),
said 13 summer camps were made
possible largely through the con-
tributions by US personnel in Ger-
many to the annual GYA “Send a
Kid to Camp” campaign.

The largest all-GYA camp is lo-
cated on the shores of the Wannsee
in the US Sector of Berlin. During
the five-week camping period, the
site provides recreation for nearly
2,300 young Berliners. More than

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 26 ---
Praise of the Week

Sometimes you may run into
real nice adventures on the high-
ways at night. You need not even
be named Hildegard. The follow-
ing happened to a resident of
Stuttgart and his driver the night
preceding May 14 on the main
highway between Kirchheim/Teck
and Denkendorf: Military Police
show up and stop the car. The
two Germans get out, ask what
is wrong and learn that their
right rear tire is nearly flat. Hmm!
The four stare at each other. Sud-
denly one of the Americans turns
around, leaves without saying a
word, gets auto-jack and wrench
and starts changing the tire. The
Germans protest, in vain. A
wheel-nut sticks so tight, that it
must be chiseled off. But there
is no tool. The other American
stops a truck from Siegen, bor-
rows a chisel, and then the wheel
is changed. The two elderly gen-
tlemen from Stuttgart can only
put their thanks in words; no re-
compense is accepted. Comrade-
ship at night on the highways! A
cheer to Highway Patrol S-37 224.

—Translated from the Stuttgarter
Zeitung (Stuttgart, May 17).

$1,600 was raised for the camp in a
spring benefit presented by Dick
Button, US Olympic figure skating
champion at Berlin’s Sportpalast.

By combining its GYA facilities
with local German youth commit-
tees, Heidelberg Military Post is
operating camps for close to 3,500
boys and girls at Hirschhorn, Mos-
bach and Karlsruhe.

GYA is cooperating with Bavarian
Sports Clubs in making vacations
possible for hundreds in the Munich
area. Regensburg, Dachau’ and
Berchtesgaden GYA Centers also
opened camps in August.

A five-week session for 800 camp-
ers is beginning in the Stuttgart
area where Stuttgart Military Post
and Seventh Army personnel raised
funds for the outings at a three-day
carnival. Augsburg, Frankfurt and

AUGUST 1952

Nuremberg Military Posts and the
Twelfth Air Force are furnishing
GYA camp holidays for approx-
imately 2,500 children, while another
500 are attending camps in Bremer-
haven and Wuerzburg areas.

Record Number Flee East

A total of 13,182 refugees from the
Soviet Zone entered West Berlin
during July, the highest number
ever recorded at West Berlin for a
single month. The large upsurge in
refugee arrivals began during June,
when a: total of 8,219 refugees enter-
ed this city. The combined figure
for the preceding five months of
1952, January through May, was
22,455.

Simultaneously with the upsweep
in refugee arrivals was a sharp in-
crease in East German police (Vopos)
desertions. During July, when a re-
cord number of Vopos deserted, a
total of 210 defected to West Berlin.
The July figure compares with 107
in June, and an average of about 75
monthly for the preceding five
months of 1952.

The present sharp increase in
refugee arrivals has been attributed
mainly to new and developing pres-
sures brought about by new East
German regulations.

The announcement by the East
German government on July 24 of
“Duty for Germany” is expected to
continue to swell the numbers of
refugees in the immediate future, it
was said by HICOG and Berlin city
officials. Uneasiness and _ unrest
created by the announcement of this
forced “voluntary” service was al-
ready reflected in a renewed sharp
rise in refugee arrivals during the
latter days of July.

New Employment Obtained
Eighty-six percent of all German
employees who requested assistance
in obtaining new employment after
their services with HICOG had
ended, succeeded in getting new jobs,
according to HICOG's Personnel
Division in announcing figures cover-
ing the first three months of 1952.

23

Between Jan. 1 and March 31 of
this year, 1,760 German employees
resigned or were released through
staff reductions. The large majority
were stationed in field offices. Of
these, 1,073 asked for assistance in
obtaining new employment, while
387 did not request HICOG aid.

Working closely with the German
Labor Office, HICOG was instru-
mental in placing 924, or 86 percent
of those requesting assistance, in
private industry or with govern-
mental agencies of the Federal Re-
public.

Of the over-all total of 1,760 who
left HICOG employ during the three-
month period, 299 resigned of their
own accord. In most of these cases
it was assumed they resigned to take
better positions.

Only in the cases of 86 former
employees was HICOG unable to
give recommendations to prospective
new employers, usually on the
grounds that it was not known

whether the former employee con-
cerned was capable of doing the job
for which he was applying.

Dr. Hugh Gibson, president of the
Provisional Intergovernmental Com-
mittee for Movement of Migrants
from Europe, bids farewell toa group
of emigrants as they prepare to leave
the Bremen-Lesum emigration camp
July 11 for Bremerhaven.

(AMCONGEN photo by Schmidt)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Visit of Industrial Leaders

Five American industrial leaders
are spending five weeks in Germany,
advising German manufacturers,
plant owners and labor unionists on
production marketing, business or-
ganization, human relations and re-
lated subjects. Members of the
group, which arrived Aug. 3, are:

Thomas Hunt Vaughn, vice pres-
ident of research and development
of the Wyandotte Chemicals Cor-
poration of Michigan.

Owen R. Skelton, director of the
Chrysler Corporation.

James M. Parker, consultant and
director of the Detroit Edison Com-
pany.

Charles Miller Weyand, chairman
of the Foreign Trade Committee of
Detroit's Chamber of Commerce.

Martin Robert Doring, labor-
management relations expert.

Press Club in Nuremberg

Friendly German-American rela-
tions and better understanding of
their respective views are being
engendered in Nuremberg through
the activities of the recently organ-
ized “International Press Club of
Nuremberg.”

The club was initiated last April at
the suggestion of Joe F. Hackett, US
resident officer, and Haynes R.
Mahoney, information officer of the
US Public Affairs Regional Center.
There was an enthusiastic response
from about 40 persons, comprising an
influential cross-section of local in-
formation media. Included are ed-
itors of the three largest newspapers,
Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuernber-
ger Zeitung and 8-Uhr Blatt, the
head of the Bayerischer Heimatzei-
tungsverleger-Dienst and local cor-
respondent of DPA, the German
news service.

On the American side are officials
of the Nuremberg Public Affairs
Center, representatives of the Amer-
ican Forces Network, the Army in-
formation officer and the Nuremberg
Military Post civil affairs officers.
Also the British and French cultural
affairs officers in Nuremberg are
members.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The club holds an information so-
cial gathering every Wednesday
evening with an official meeting and
program monthly. At the latter guest
speakers have been Nuremberg’s new
mayor, Otto Buernreuther; diploma-
tic representatives of France, Britain
and Peru, and Brig. Gen. Ernest
Bixby, commander of the Nuremberg
Military Post.

A unique feature of the club is its
informal organization, which permits
the development of friendly German-
American relations and press interest
in Regional Center activities. Through
this gathering, a German newsman
was interested in writing a feature
on new activities at the America
House and local editors have been
kept informed on several future pub-
lic-affairs activities. One example
has been the publicity given the in-
auguration of the bookmobile of the
America House.

GYA Activities Continued

Continuation of the US Armed
Forces Assistance Program to Ger-
man Youth Activities (GYA) has
been assured by the allocation of
funds to meet the payroll of German
personnel employed in the youth
centers, according to an annoucement
July 21 by EUCOM Headquarters
and the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany.

GYA Officials at EUCOM Head-
quarters said the money was made
available through allocations from

¥ =f

the General Clay Fund for German
Youth Activities, EUCOM contribu-
tions, donations from troop units and
counterpart funds set aside for GYA
by the US High Commissioner.

Lt. Col. Robert A. Norman, EUCOM
GYA Branch chief, said that under
the new budget some centers will
have to be closed and the services of
a number of employees terminated,
He pointed out, however, that reduc-
tion in the scope of the program’s
operations follows GYA policy of ne-
gotiating with German authorities to
take over local youth activities on a
community basis as they become able
economically to do so.

Colonel Norman indicated the lim-
ited funds allocated to GYA for
fiscal year 1953 will be augmented by
drives to increase stateside and
EUCOM donations, volunteer sup-
port by troop units in Germany, and
by programs for strengthening local
GYA funds at military posts and air
installations.

Sewing Machines Given Homes

Four youth homes of the Youth
Reconstruction and Self-Help Pro-
gram in Friedrichshafen, Aulendorf,
Siessen and Ebingen in Baden-Wuert-
temberg were presented one sewing
machine each as a joint donation by
Mrs. Ellen McCloy, wife of the US
High Commissioner for Germany,
and the Stuttgart American Wom-
en’s Club.

Members of the kindergarten class of the Thomas A. Roberts American
School in Berlin exhibit their diplomas at the recent end-of-school ceremony.

At left is their teacher, Mrs. E. V. Smith of Beloit, Wis.

24

(US Army photo)

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 28 ---
David H. Maynard (center), special representative of the Mutual Security
Agency in Berlin, receives from Dr. Wilhelm Bosner (right) a copy of the
newly published “Buyer’s Guide for Berlin Consumer Goods.” Also at the
ceremony June 27 are (left to right): H. N. Higgins, chief of the Industry
Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG; Dr. Guenter Milich, Kurt Schilde and Dr.
Hermann Goez. All except Mr. Maynard and Mr. Higgins are members of the
Berlin Marketing Council which is distributing 10,000 copies of the guide.

Presentations were made by Mrs.
John O. Riedl, wife of the American
public affairs officer in Freiburg, in
the name of Mrs. McCloy and the
Stuttgart club in ceremonies June 27
and 28 at the Institut St. Antonius
in Friedrichshafen; Institut Siessen
in Saulgau; Haushaltungsschule in
Aulendorf, and Lern- und Dienst-
scharheim in Ebingen.

These donations were part of a
program under which 18 homes hous-
ing some 1,200 young people have re-
ceived a sewing machine. Three ma-
chines were destined for homes in
South Baden. Presentations to homes
in the American zone were made
earlier.

The assistance given the homes of
the Youth Reconstruction and Self-
Help Program by Mrs. McCloy and
American women in Germany is a
result of their desire to help the Ger-
man youth help themselves. The
donation of sewing machines is ex-
Fected to aid the youth in mending
their own clothes, in their vocational
training and, if properly guided, to
lead to the establishment of sewing
centers and sewing classes in the
homes for the home inmates as well

AUGUST 1952

(HICOG-Berlin photo)

as for members of the community
in which they are located.

Briefing on Berlin

The youth of northern Hesse re-
ceived an intimate account of the
political situation in Berlin and the
Soviet Zone with emphasis on youth
work, when two representatives of
the West Berlin Youth Organization
recently made a speaking tour of the
City of Kassel and five nearby coun-
ties of Eschwege, Witzenhausen, Hof-
geismar, Waldeck and Wolfshagen.*

During the six-day tour which was
sponsored by the State Youth Plan-
ing Committee, the activities of the
two young men included talks and
discussions at school rallies, meetings
with youth leaders, groups and sem-
inars. The largest meeting, held in
the Kassel town hall, was attended
by 1,500 persons.

They explained that despite strong
pressure exerted by the Soviet Zone
government only 38 percent of the
older youth and 56 percent of school-
age youth are organized in the Com-

*also note “Berlin Youth Rebuff Bavarian
Reds” in Information Bulletin, November
1951.

25

munist youth group (FDJ). However,
because of teaching methods now
being applied in the Soviet Zone
schools aimed at educating children
for the Soviet way of life, member-
ship of the FDJ and its younger
counterpart Young Pioneers, is ex-
pected to increase considerably with-
in the coming year.

The only other youth organizations
still permitted to continue in the
Soviet Zone are the Evangelical
Youth and, to a very limited extent,
the Catholic Youth. Both groups,
closely observed by East Zone au-
thorities and limited to strictly re-
ligious activities, are attempting to
strengthen church activities and
family life.

The two Berliners expressed cri-
ticism of the lack of interest of youth
of Western Germany toward the
Berlin situation and said that this
indifference would smother the
“flames of hope” among the East
Zone population. They urged Hessian
youth to maintain and strengthen
their contacts with friends and rela-
tions living in the Soviet Zone and
to supply them with good literature
channeled through West Berlin youth
organizations.

Bookmobile in Stuttgart

The bookmobile of the Stuttgart
America House began operation on
July 31 with a trip to Metzingen near
Reutlingen. The bookmobile is a huge
three-ton truck with a capacity for
some 4000 volumes plus magazines,
brochures, a sound projector, and
other equipment.

According to George D. Henry, di-
rector of the America House in
Stuttgart, the bookmobile, as a be-
ginning, is visiting five towns in
Baden-Wuerttemberg — Metzingen,
Auingen, Neuenburg, Geislingen and
Horb. It is planned to extend the
service to about 10 towns, which will
be visited in regular 14-day intervals.

The greater part of the 4,000 vol-
umes which the bookmobile carries
are in the German langage. They
cover all spheres of life and all fields
of literature, for example govern-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
ment, law, science, arts, fiction, bio-
graphy and poetry. The lending-out
procedure is the same as in the
America Houses: the readers have
free access to the books and can
borrow them free of charge. While
the stock of the bookmobile is neces-
sarily limited, a catalogue listing all
the books available in the Stuttgart
America House enables readers to
order books in the bookmobile. These
books will be brought along on the
next visit.

Another important feature of the
bookmobile is its sound projector,
which will make it possible to show
cultural, educational or documentary
films. Requests of local organizations
or groups for the showing of a spe-
cific film of particular interest can
be given to the librarian.

The bookmobile also carries a re-
cord-player and a collection of clas-
sical and modern music so that re-
cord concerts may be given.

Ban on Dueling

Students of the University of Ham-
burg have been warned against duel-
ing and against the wearing of stu-
dent fraternity colors in public or
within the precincts of the univer-
sity.* A notice, signed by Prof. Bruno
Snell, rector of the university, was
posted on all bulletin boards of the
university.

Several members of the Student
Parliament had expressed their op-
position to the banning of dueling
on the principle that the ban was
‘prejudicial to academic liberty.”

Subsequently Rector Snell stated
in another announcement that the
revival of these antiquated academic
customs tended to create a “class”
feeling, gave offense to the general
public and was therefore undem-
ocratic. He said such customs dis-
rupted student life and placed the
German students in a position that
was difficult for foreigners to under-
stand or feel sympathetic toward
them. Thus, the announcement con-
tinued, a revival of these customs
would prove derogatory to German
national interests at a time when

*see “Dueling in Universities” in the In-
formation Bulletin, January 1952.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Participating ina memorial ceremony
July 4 at Ploetzensee Prison in Ber-
lin where the Nazis executed more

than 2,000 political opponents in-
cluding the July 20, 1944, bomb
plotters, are (left to right) Herbert
Baker, labor affairs adviser, Berlin
Element, HICOG; Ernst Scharnowski,
chairman of the West Berlin labor
unions, and Allen S. Haywood, exec-
utive vice president of the American
Congress of Industrial Organizations.

(HICOG-Berlin photo)

Germany was endeavoring to estab-
lish itself among the Western dem-
ocracies and gain recognition as a
full-fledged member of the United
Nations.

The action taken at Hamburg Uni-
versity was an outgrowth of discus-
sions held at a series of University
Rectors’ conferences, the latest being
at Marburg in May. The following
resolution was passed at the Marburg
meeting:

“We expect the students to recog-
nize the great privilege of being al-
lowed to study at the public expense.
Decency and tact forbids taking this
privilege for granted or the display
of superiority publicly by means of
wounds received in bloody swora
fighting.We consider it also our duty
to see that the University reflects the
overall attitude of the citizens.”

Another result of these meetings
was the announcement by the rectors
of the German universities recogniz-
ing students’ need for a separate and
distinct student life but stressing the
viewpoint that such activity should
take the form of “student commun-

26

ity life,” which they felt could also
exert considerable educational in-
fluence.

RIAS Play Shows Way

RIAS’ dramatic show, referred to
as “They Forgot the Human Ele-
ment,” of June 17 had a realistic se-
quel a few days later.

Presented in a weekly half-hour
program from the American radio
station in Berlin for listeners in the
Soviet Zone, the play dealt with a
Soviet Zone policeman and a pri-
soner he was escorting from one jail
to another. When the policeman
learned from the prisoner that the
latter was not a criminal, but anoth-
er victim of the Communist regime,
he decided to escort the prisoner and
himself to political asylum in the
West.

RIAS received a letter, dated June
21, from a political refugee in West
Berlin. A translation of the letter
was:

“On June 17, 1952, at about 3 p.m.,
I listened to the broadcast ‘They
Forgot the Human Element!’ while
I was in Frankfurt on the Oder. I
had been pondering the liberation of
two poor, sick people who were suf-
fering behind prison walls. As head
of the district attorney’s office for
Frankfurt on the Oder I had already
returned many people to freedom,
among them several West Berliners
and a West German. This time I did
not know how to go about it without
endangering myself and my family.

“The broadcast gripped me so
strongly that I carried out the ac-
tion and also warned two other per-
sens of their impending arrest. At
9 in the morning on June 20 I lib-
erated the persons referred to, and
at 10 had to flee myself.

“When I woke up this morning I
thought of ‘They Forgot the Human
Element,’ and I was happy that for
the first time in seven years I could
get up with the feeling: ‘From now ~
on you can say what you think with-
out hypocrisy or lies.’” j

On July 19 the writer was inter- —
viewed at RIAS and was able to —
supply more details concerning the
statements in his letter.

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 30 ---
Steel Restrictions Lifted

All Allied restriction imposed on
German steel production and capac-
ity were lifted by an agreement,
signed by the Allied high commis-
sioners on behalf of their govern-
ments, amending the Agreement
Concerning Industrial Controls of
April 5, 1952. The new agreement
was effective as of July 25.

This action followed the entry into
force July 25 of the Treaty Con-
stituting the European Coal and
Steel Community, which had been
developed under the proposal com-
monly referred to as the Schuman
Plan. Documents showing ratifica-
tion of the treaty by the parliaments
of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy,
Luxembourg and the Netherlands
have been deposited in Paris.

The action also implemented the
agreement of the governments of
France, the United Kingdom and the
United States in Paris Oct. 19, 1951,
on the action to be taken by the Al-
lied high commissioners upon entry
into force of the treaty.

Until the July 25 action, the plant
capacity for making steel in the Fed-
eral Republic could not be increased
beyond that existing after comple-
tion of the reparations program ex-
cept to maintain technological devel-
opment and after authorization by
the Allied High Commission. Crude
steel production was limited to
11,100,000 tons annually, although
excess production could be author-

ized by HICOM where this would
facilitate the defense effort.

As a further consequence of the
entry into force of the European
Coal and Steel Community Treaty,
the representatives of Belgium,
France, Luxembourg, the Nether-
lands, the United Kingdom and the
United States signed July 25 in Paris,
an agreement providing for the
termination of the Ruhr Agreement
of April 29, 1949 and for the pro-
gressive liquidation of the Inter-
national Authority for the Ruhr.
Many of the functions of the Ruhr
Authority ceased immediately; others
will be progressively taken over by
the High Authority of the European
Coal and Steel Community.

In accordance with this develop-
ment, the Allied High Commission
and its agencies including the Com-
bined Coal Control Group and the
Combined Steel Group ceased to ex-
ercise those of their functions con-
cerning coal and steel for which
competence is given to the High
Authority under the terms of the
treaty, progressively as the High
Authority is authorized to exercise
competence under the convention
containing the transitional provi-
sions. In particular, the Allied High
Commission ceased all functions re-
lating to investments or the man-
agement of steel or coal concerns,
except those required for the com-
pletion of the reorganization of the
German coal, iron and steel indus-

tries under Law 27. HICOM’s re-
sponsibilities under Article 22 of the
Ruhr Agreement will be progres-
sively abrogated as the functions of
the Ruhr Authority under Articles
15 and 20 of the Ruhr Agreement
are terminated.

American Freed
after Seven Years

Charles A. Noble, an American
citizen who was held in Soviet con-
centration camps in East Germany
for seven years on charges of being
“a spy” and dealing with the “im-
perialist West,” received a new
United States passport.

Mr. Noble, formerly of Detroit,
Mich., was released by the East Ger-
man police July 4 and reported to
the US Consulate in Berlin July 8.

When Mr. Noble was released by
the East German police July 4 he
said that he had asked them for the
return of his passport and other
papers, which had been taken from
him by Soviet authorities at the time
of his arrest in Dresden July 5, 1945.
But, said Mr. Noble, the East Ger-
man police said “We know noth-
ing about them,” and merely gave
him a simple mimeographed form
filled out in pencil to the effect that
he was released from custody.

US authorities in Berlin had been
in communication with the Soviet
authorities over a period of seven
years attempting to learn his where-
abouts and to effect his release.

A public demonstration of fire-fighting apparatus, including hand extinguishers and pumping machines, available

in the American apartments at Plittersdorf in Bad Godesberg,
firm. Specially constructed wooden shacks,

ceived instruction and watched the fire-fighting equipment in use.

was given recently by the German manufacturing

old bicycle tires and other materials were burned while residents re-
(HICOG photo)

AUGUST 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
AUNANUUUUNUGUOOCHOGUOGNUOOAUSUOOGEDOUOUODUOOUESOQODEOOCOOOGOUELS

LOTT

it)

Berlin’s America House

Berlin’s America House (term in
Germany for US Information Cen-
ter) has been the subject of appre-
ciative newspaper comment during
recent weeks. While stressing the
importance both of the British and
the American information centers, a
feature article entitled “Comments
on the Cultural Bridge,” in Der Tag,
daily mewspaper in Berlin, dealt
chiefly with the activities of the
local America House. The article said
in part:

“They (the America Houses) have
opened to Berliners a new window
toward the world. That is what mat-
ters. They give us an opportunity to
see for ourselves, to gather informa-
tion and to make up our minds about
what we see and learn. Contrary to
what happens in the House of Soviet
Culture, we are not flooded with a
ceaseless stream of self-glorification.
That is why the inhabitants of the
East Zone and East Sector like to
visit the America House.

“In the special reading room re-
served for them, 3,000 to 4,000 week-
ly visitors are counted and at least
as many patronize the regular film
performances. As these people are
generally hard pressed for time, they
are allowed to take books home with
them into the Soviet Zone. It hap-
pens sometimes that such books are
not returned, but rarely because of
dishonesty. There was, for example,
the case of a reader in Dresden. He
turned up again after a whole year
with the two borrowed volumes and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking. The selection has been made so as to
cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and
to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any
event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US
authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by
the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

INGUUUEAURUGONDOGUONOUUUOUOONOUEOONOUDOGUSOOONENCOOEORONEDOIS

excused himself; he had been put
behind bars by the NKVD.

“Greedily these people pounce on
the books, particularly those which
reflect technological and scientific
developments in the free world.
‘Let’s see what they have found and
discovered West of the Iron Curtain,’
said one of these visitors from the
East Zone, browsing among the
books. ‘We’ll be told presently that
Lomonossov (a Russian scientist)
made all these discoveries long ago,’
he added bitterly.

“In recent days the stream of the
visitors from the East has become
thinner, obviously because of the in-
creasing danger of such‘ visits. The
Taegliche Rundschau (Soviet occupa-
tion daily) published an article which
threatened severe punishment to
those who keep up relations with the
‘Western poison kitchens.’

“But in general, attendance figures
continue to rise. Approximately 1,500
persons visit the America House
daily. One wonders whether the con-
certs, the lectures, the film showings,
the study groups, or the language
courses attract them most. Though
it is difficult to give an exact break-
down of attendance figures, it is a
fact that students and unemployed
are among the most zealous America
House visitors.

“I found two young people, pupils
of a Berlin night school, sitting with
their noses buried in frighteningly
fat volumes. Though only three days
separated them from their ‘maturity’
examination, they were cool as cu-
cumbers, but glad to be able to con-

28

Can it be bridged by a conference
table. — from Nuernberger Zeitung
(Nuremberg), July 18.

sult the larger Webster about last
minute language problems... I also
talked to a teacher who was in
search of material on modern rec-
lamation projects in America, of
which he had promised to tell his
pupils. I met a woman doctor who
returned the medical works in which
she had found very useful documen-
tation for a lecture she delivered.
Of course, there was also the elderly
lady who ‘just drops in between
shoppings’ inquiring timidly, ‘Haven’t
you got a nice novel for me?’ Less
popular with the America House
staff are the persistent visitors who
want to have an explanation of why
their aunt in Chicago does not give
any sign of life, or wish to be put
‘on the list of the people who receive
parcels from over there.’

“By the way, would it not be @
good plan to establish equally suc-
cessful centers ‘presenting Germany’
in London and New York.”

Marshall Plan

The Marshall Plan was praised
July 2 in an identical editorial in the

AUGUST 195

--- Page 32 ---
Weserkurier (Bremerhaven) and Kas-
seler Post (Kassel). This editorial, in
part, said:

“If the Western Powers are often
accused of being too slow and of
lacking determination, we must ex-
clude America from this accusation.
Especially the Marshall Plan, togeth-
er with the Truman Doctrine for
Greece and Turkey, proves that
Washington’s actions were well-
planned and, when seen in retro-
spect, quite consistent.

“Washington is convinced that it
will be decided in Europe who will
win the peace. America acted in
accordance with this conviction...
The Marshall Plan was intended to
breach European nationalism and be
the beginning of a United States of
Europe. (The Marshall Plan undoubt-
edly was such a beginning), even
though the final goal still lies in the
far distance.”

Contractual Agreements

Ratification by the US Senate of
the Contractual Agreements for Ger-
many caused many German editorial
writers to refer with much interest
to the fact that both Republicans
and Democrats voted in favor of
ratification. However, the Social
Democratic press ignored the issue.

Die Welt (Essen and Hamburg,
July 3) wrote: Concerning the Ger-
man problem the two American par-
ties were in agreement — and this
is of decisive. importance... The
American ratification of the treaties

showed the Soviet Union that no
maneuvers will divert America from
its present political course. This fact
is particularly important at this
moment when the presidential elec-
tion campaign enters its decisive
phase — and when political observ-
ers on this side of the ocean feel
called upon to predict and warn
about all kinds of surprises in
(American) foreign policy. The Sen-
ate debate showed that the United
States sees the European problem
not from the point of view of inter-
nal politics but exclusively from the
point of view of world politics.”

Frankfurter Rundschau (Frankfurt,
July 3): “It was to be expected that
the United States, the leading power
of the West, and free from many of
the scruples prevailing in Europe,
would make a beginning (in ratify-
ing the treaty). The surprising fact
is this: in the middle of a not exact-
ly gentle election campaign... the
American Senate for a brief, but all
the more important, moment return-
ed to a bipartisan foreign policy.
The stubborn work of Senator Van-
denberg was not in vain; even the
critics of the Truman administration
on the whole were convinced by the
arguments of Democratic Senator
Connally and Republican Senator
Wiley...”

Soviet Zone Anti-Church
Campaign

Editorials in the West German
papers July 23 stressed that the re-

cent attacks against the church in
the Soviet Zone were also attacks on
German unity, since until then the
churches still linked the two di-
vided parts of Germany. Some edito-
rials also pointed out that the
Soviets are not willing to tolerate an’
independent church within the area
under their control.

Rhein-Zeitung (Koblenz) for in-
stance, attacked the decision of
Soviet Zone authorities to refuse
interzonal passes for East-Germans
wishing to attend church meetings
in West-Germany:

“Without reason given, the already
granted permission for Germans to
visit their brothers in the West is
cancelled. By such measure the divi-
sion of the two parts of our father-
land is intensified and the hope for
political reunification is reduced...
Moscow wants neither German
unity...nor an independent church
within its sphere of power...”

Westdeutsche Neue Presse (Dues-
seldorf and Neue Ruhr-Zeitung (Es-
sen) carried the same editorial:

“The churches constitute a kind of
last link which still connects the
politically divided remnants of Ger-
many. Apparently, it has been decid-
ed to drop this link now... Perhaps
(the anti-church campaign) could
have been prevented by an earlier
and more active unification policy of
the West. But we are also curious
what Pastor Niemoeller has to say...
to this new departure in the SED’s
unification policy.”

Federal Republic: The patient has spotty lungs. — from First prove you’ve become a vegetarian! — from Ruhr

Ruhr Nachrichten (Dortmund), July 3.

AUGUST 1952

Nachrichten (Dortmund), July 12.

29

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Closing Plan Protested

The Darmstaedter Echo (Darm-
stadt) published recently several
“Letters to the Editor,” protesting
against the announced plan to re-
move the Heppenheim America
House*, from the building in which
are accommodated, among others,
the county library and the library
for teachers. It is reported that the
Federal Finance Ministry intends to
use the building, property of the
former Reich Finance Ministry, to
house the local customs office.

One reader wrote: “For Germany
as the ‘country of poets and think-
ers’ it is a shame to dissolve such a
valuable cultural institute and to ac-
commodate it in unsuitable rooms.
The Americans, who have contribut-
ed most to the extension of the lib-
rary, will also shake their heads
about the strange ways of German
bureaucracy.”

A woman reader wrote: “I can
confirm that the inhabitants of Berg-

*Neither HICOG nor USIS participates in
the operations of the Heppenheim Amer-
ican House as this was one of the several
US Information Centers and Reading
Rooms turned over last year to German
communities and local groups to operate
under a contract which provides that the
United States continues to supply Amer-
ican books and the German officials
maintain certain practices such as the

open-shelf system and free lending for all.

I don’t believe in them (flying sau-
cers). — from Westfaelische Nach-
richten (Muenster), June 28.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

strasse County regard the Heppen-
heim America House as a valuable
present and are extremely surprised
to hear that it shall now be changed
into a customs house. In the name
of many other people I urgently beg
to try and find ways and means to
accommodate the customs office in
another place.”

A doctor wrote: “We all know how
important it is to give to youth and
to those adults who want it the op-
portunity to read good books and
study subjects they are interested in.
What do the best laws for the pro-
tection of youth help if they do
nothing but pronounce prohibitions,
whereas those places, where the
young people can read really good
books, are wiped out?”

Soviet Zone Slogans Assailed

The Managing Executive Commit-
tee of the Foods and Stimulants in
Germany sharply criticized its coun-
terpart in the Soviet Zone, declaring
“we will not exchange our union in-
dependence and freedom for an East-
ern labor front.” Translation of the
committee’s statement, published in
the union’s organ Einigkeit (Ham-
burg, July 15), follows:

“Letters are being sent constantly

_ by the Soviet Zone Foods and Stim-

ulants Union to the Executive Com-
mittee, union officials and works
councilors. At one moment they are
full of peace slogans, and the next
they abound with slander and de-
famation against the western Ger-
man trade unions. The latest in-
formation bulletin of the Soviet
Zone Foods and Stimulants Union
reprints a letter sent to the Exec-
utive Committee of our union. They
ask: “Why don’t you answer?” What
is the purpose of such letters? Nego-
tiations! The partner and ‘conditions
are too unequal. We all desire an
early reunification with our sisters
and brothers in the Soviet Zone and
trade union unity. But we will not
exchange our union independence
and freedom for an Eastern labor
front.

We extend our hand but it is too
short to bridge the dead zone. We

30

The Federal Parliament debate is
on! — from Berliner Anzeiger (Ber-
lin), July 10.

have not built up these dams in this
zone. It is not we who play around
with millions of people as is now
the case in Berlin. We have no slave
labor and no concentration camps,
but we have genuine people-owned .
enterprises and collective agreements
which are valid. We too have no
reason to be silent, and we have
answered as our members always
will, as follows:

“To: Foods and Stimulants Union in
the Free German Trade Union
Federation (FDGB), Berlin

“Dear Colleagues:

“We received your letter of April
22, 1952. Since our silence so far has
been falsely interpreted, we will
briefly state our position concerning
your letter.

“We agree with you in the opinion
that the working people need a
united, independent democratic and
peace-loving Germany. We also as-
sume that you are sincere in your
efforts to serve the well-being of
our people as well as in your other
objectives.

“We also state, however, that this
will must remain a pure theory in
the Soviet Zone since you lack all
prerequisites for supporting your
own views in freedom. We greatly
desire the elimination of the cap-
italist economic system, but we also
do not desire any state capitalism
which makes the working people
even more clearly and object of the
system. It is a pity that you are not
aware of this. Apparently you are
also not aware that it is your oc-
cupation power which dictates and
which makes free all-German elec-
tions impossible. The commission
which was to examine the prered-

AUGUST 1953

--- Page 34 ---
uisites for such elections has been
waiting long enough for the entry
permit.

“We are against any militarism.
We say so not only over the border,
but in our own country, and raise
our voice distinctly. But what are
you doing? The People’s Police has
become since long a big military
machine, the whole world knows
this. Only you refuse to realize it.
People to Arms — Grotewohl calls,
and the Wilhelm-Pieck battalions
march. If, as the SED central organ
of June 5 reports, your girls carry
rifles proudly and self-consciously,
well, then we sometimes get to
wondering.

“In the Western Zone, the trade
unions also carry out planned ac-
tions. In the East Zone, one calls for
such actions, but that ends it. What
is now happening again at the zonal
border with you, the other things
which occur in the land of freedom,
dear friends, is no platform on which
mutual negotiations could take place.
First create over there the same
conditions as with us, create really
free trade unions, and we will soon
come together. If one wants to get
together, one must eliminate the
barriers, but not create any areas of
death. What your police demonstrate
upon Stalin’s order has nothing to
do with freedom or democracy.

“In the West Zone, no trade
unionist thinks of making his per-
sonal freedom, his own opinion and
his decisions subject to the will of
an occupation power. It appears to
us that the difference is remarkable.
We ourselves determine the schedule
for our trade union work. You get

Moscow’s
athletes: Siberia if you lose. — from
Braunschweiger Zeitung (Brunswick),
July 19-20.

instructions to Olympic

AUGUST 1952

it dictated. And that is what we do
not like. .

“Signed: The Managing Executive
Committee.”

Beer Price Protested

In a letter to the Bavarian govern-
ment, the Bavarian district of the
German Federation of Trade Unions
(DGB) protested against the govern-
mental increase of the beer price
(raised by about 15 percent) and
announced “countermeasures.” The
Bavarian DGB district has called
upon the people to cut beer con-
sumption and has asked all work
canteens controlled by labor to ter-
minate current delivery contracts for
beer, as of the earliest possible date.
The rise in the cost of living result-
ing from the increase in the beer
price must be compensated for by
higher wages and salaries, the letter

stated. Continued on Page 32

The Sixth Column
Continued from Page 2
tive. But the European resentment
against America, this product of
weakness and fear, is absolutely
sterile. It falsifies reality. It leads to
a picture of the world in which poor
Europe must seek its salvation be-
tween the Scylla and Charybdis of
a Soviet and an American danger.
In this picture of the world Eu-
rope again is in the center of events,
but in a most deplorable manner.
And what a misinterpretation of the
facts to set on an equal level the
possibly not always accomodating
protector and the threatening ag-
gressor. This retreat into resent-
ment against both sides is actually
an attempted escape from one’s own
responsibility and one’s own deci-
sion.

A Natural Alliance

The allegedly “good Europeans”
who submit to this resentment un-
consciously and involuntarily become
the gravediggers of Europe. There-
fore it is one of the most important
duties of all really good Europeans
to oppose this delusion. Not by glo-
rifying America or by denying its
mistakes but only by that realism

31

gerl - Brauerei }

Beer prices raised: Will Bavarians
come to this! — from Braunschwei-
ger Zeitung (Brunswick), July 4.

through which alone all genuine
problems can be solved.

Europe and America are natural
allies in the face of a common dan-
ger. There is no escaping this alli-
ance. The European role within this
community depends primarily on the
Europeans themselves. It depends on
their positive approach and not on
their anti-attitudes. It depends on
their desire for European unity
within the unity of the West. It
depends on their ability to overcome
all internal European obstacles and
rivalries. It depends on their read-
iness really to put the supra-national
above the national. In other words,
it depends on their ability to reshape
traditional values by present-day
action, instead of lovingly storing
them in museums.

The anti-American current in
Germany is at present weaker than
in many other countries. But for us,
too, the time has come to warn
against a suicidal trend. We can only
live with America. Without America
Europe would have been lost long
ago and Germany would have
starved. Against America is just
another word for: pro-Soviet +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Text of Communique of London Debt Conference

Following is the text of the commu-
nique issued at the conclusion of the
London Conference on German External
Debts Aug. 8.

The London Conference on German
External Debts ended today (Aug. 8) with
the adoption at a plenary meeting of a
conference report. This report records
the terms of settlement for German
prewar external debts, which have been
agreed between creditors and debtors
and which are recommended for the ap-
proval of the governments concerned.
Speaking for the tripartite commission
on German debts, representing the gov-
ernments of Fiance, the United King-
dom and the United States of America,
at whose invitation the conference was
called, Sir George Rendel (United King-
dom), M. F. D. Gregh (France) and John
W. Gunter (United States) congratulated
the delegates on the completion of a
successful conference and thanked them
for the hard work which the solution of
the problems confronting the conference
had entailed.

Information on the settlement terms
agreed between creditors and debtors is
coatained in the attached summary state-
ment (not published here). It will be
seen that, broadly speaking, these terms
adhere as closely as possible to the terms
of the original contracts and do not in
most cases, entail any reduction of the
original principal amounts. Payments on
joan contracts containing gold clauses
will be made as though the value of the
currencies of issue of the loan had been
defined in relation not to gold but to the
United States dollar. The Young Loan
Agreement contains an additional form
of exchange guarantee. In the main,
future interest rates have been some-
what reduced from those provided in the
original contracts. Amortization of the
principal of most of the debts will begin
after five years and maturity dates have
been extended. Provision is made for
more rapid repayment of capital and in-
terest in certain types of debt, if this is
made in blocked Deutsche marks which
can be utilized for investment in Ger-
many.

The report of the conference provides
for the preparation of an inter-govern-
mental «agreement to give international
authority to the settlement plan recom-
mended in the report. Governments in-
terested in the debt settlement will be
invited to become parties to the inter-
governmental agreement.

At the final plenary meeting today the
Tripartite Commission announced that
work would proceed immediately on the
drafting of the proposed inter-govern-
mental agreement. At the same time
bilateral agreements would be prepared
providing for the settlement of the
claims of the United Kingdom, France
and the United States in respect to their
postwar economic aid to Germany.
These claims were the subject of earlier
discussions last December at which three
powers offered, subject to the conclusion
of a satisfactory and equitable agreement
on Germany’s prewar debts, to make
important concessions in the priorities
and amounts of their claims.

The conference which ended today had
been preceded by more than two years
of preparatory work by the interested
governments. In an exchange of letters
of March 6, 1951, between the chancellor
of the German Federal Republic and the
three Allied High Commissioners, acting
on behalf of the governments of France,
the United Kingdom and the United
States of America, the Federal Govern-
ment confirmed its liability for the pre-
war external debts of the German Reich
and acknowledged in principle the debt

INFORMATION BULLETIN

arising from the postwar economic as-
sistance furnished to Germany by the
three powers, and its willingness to ac-
cord this debt priority over all other
foreign claims against Germany.

In May 1951, the three governments set
up the Tripartite Commission on Ger-
man debts. In June and July 1951, the
Commission held preliminary discussions
with representatives from Germany and
from_the principal creditor countries.
The Tripartite Commission has also been
responsible for the organization of the
London Conference and has represented
the three governments throughout the
negotiations. The members of the Tri-
partite Commission are Sir George
Rendel (United Kingdom), M. F. D. Gregh
(France) and Ambassador Warren Lee
Pierson (USA). In the recent absence of
Mr. Pierson, the United States has been
represented by Minister John W. Gunter.
The German delegation has been led
throughout by Hermann J. Abs.

The conference held its first plenary
meeting at Lancaster House, London, on
Feb. 28, 1952. In carrying out its work,
the conference was guided by certain
principles, which appear in the report.
They include the principle that the Fed-
eral Republic’s economic position and
limited territorial jurisdiction should be
taken into account, to avoid dislocation
of the German economy, undue drain on
Germany's foreign exchange, or’ appre-
ciable additions to the financial burden
of any of the three governments. A
further principle was that the settlement
should ensure fair and equitable treat-
ment of all interests affected; and that
it should provide for appropriate action
on the reunification of Germany.

Twenty-two creditor countries sent del-
egations to the conference composed of
governmental, and, in many cases, pri-
vate creditor representatives. The pri-
vate creditors of France, the United
Kingdom and the United States of Amer-
ica were represented by separate del-
egations. Three countries sent observers,
while the Bank for International Settle-
ments was represented as a creditor in
its own right. The delegation from the
Federal Republic of Germany contained
both governmental and private debtor
representatives.

To facilitate its work, the conference
set up a steering committee composed of
the three members of the Tripartite
Commission, 13 representatives of cred-
itor interests from Belgium, Brazil,
France, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden,

Switzerland, the United Kingdom and
the United States, and five members
representing the public and_ private

debtor interests of the Federal Republic.

The steering committee was charged
with the organization of the conference
and with ensuring that all recommenda-
tions submitted to plenary meetings
were such as to achieve an equitable
overall settlement and equal treatment
for all creditors within each category of
debts.

The Creditors’ Committee which was
established to coordinate the views of
the various groups of creditor interests
and to appoint members of the negotiat-
ing committees was composed of rep-
resentatives from each creditor country.

Four negotiating committees were set
up with representatives of both creditor
and debtor interests as well as observers
from the Tripartite Commission. They
dealt respectively with: Reich debts and
debts of other public authorities; me-
dium and long-term German debts re-
sulting from private capital transactions;
Standstill debts; and commercial and
miscellaneous debts.

32

Mr. Abs, the head of the German del-
egation, stated that he associated himself
with the recommendations now before
the conference, because it was his desire
to meet the wishes of the creditors to
achieve a debt settlement which would
satisfy them. He expressed a hope that
the results reached at the conference
would prove to be bearable for the Fed-
eral Republic, in spite of its limited
capacity. He pointed out that it would
be necessary to realize that the Federal
Republic was going to face a heavy
burden not only during the coming
years but over a long period. In this
connection Mr. Abs declared that the
debt settlement would be jeopardized if
the Federal Republic were asked to as-
sume still further obligations from the
past.

In this respect he referred in particular
to claims by foreign countries which
were at war with Germany dating from
the time of the two world wars, espe-
cially further reparation claims. In con-
clusion, Mr. Abs stated that the meas-
ures necessary to obtain parliamentary
approval for the debt settlement plan
would be expedited to the greatest pos-
sible extent.

On behalf of the creditors’ Committee,
Baron von Lynden (Netherlands) the act-
ing chairman expressed his satisfaction
at the completion of the negotiations
and thanked the Tripartite Commission,
the German delegation and his col-
leagues on the Creditors’ Committee for
the spirit of wholehearted cooperation
which had helped to achieve this result.
A number of other governmental and
private creditor representatives, whose
names are given below also addressed
the meeting: M. E. De Graffenried
(Switzerland), Dr. Kurt Harrer (Austria),
M. L. Smeers (Belgium), Sir M. Nie-
meyer (UK).

German Editorials
Continued from Page 31

Max Woenner, member of the Bavar-
ian DGB District Committee, told a cor-
respondent of the Sueddeutsche Zeitung
that the stable wage structure in Bavar-
ia might be shaken by this decision,
since the individual unions were com-
pletely free to terminate current collec-
tive agreements. Such terminations might
become effective very shortly, such as
in the metal industry, Woenner said.

Recent Publications

The Special Projects Program of the
Office of the U.S. High Commissioner
for Germany, Historical Division, Office
of Executive Secretary, HICOG (Meh-
lem), June 12, 1952. Monograph describ-
ing use of funds from US sources for
assisting creation and improvement of
schools, libraries, hospitals, youth homes.
and other public-service structures in
Germany.

Third Supplement to “Cumulative Index
of Legislation”, Office of General Coun-
sel, HICOG (Mehlem), June 25, 1952.
Contains changes according to pages in
original index of July 20, 1951.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
Nos. 41-42, High Commission of the
French Government in Germany, July
29, 1952. Official French report for May
and June.

AUGUST 1952

--- Page 36 ---
Cultural
Festival

(see item page 20)

Two noted American attractions
are included in the Cultural Festival
program being presented in Berlin
in September. At the top and to the
right are scenes from the folk opera
“Porgy and Bess.” With the New
York City Ballet are: (left) Francisco
Moncion and Yvonne Mounsey in
“Prodigal Son,” (below left) Nicholas
Magallanes and Tanaquil Leclereq in
“La Valse,” (below center) Maria
Tallchief in “Swan Lake,” (below
right) Nora Kaye in “The Cage.”

‘me
|

--- Page 37 ---
The “Friedrich Naumann Haus,” a home in Reutlingen, Baden-Wuerttemberg, named
after a noted liberal German politician of the Weimar Republic, furnishes housing facilities
for 120 German apprentices, homeless and refugee youths. Construction of the home was
started in July 1951 by the Gustav Werner Foundation, but a grant of DM 420,000 ($100,000)
from the HICOG Special Projects Fund permitted expansion of the project to include a
community house, four youth homes, two dwelling blocks and one training shop. Attending
the dedication ceremony in Reutlingen June 14 were (on steps above, from center to right):
Payne Templeton, senior cultural officer of the American Consulate General in Stuttgart
and HICOG representative at the ceremony; Dr. Gotthilf Schenkel, state minister of culture
of Baden-Wuerttemberg; Otto Werner, descendent of originator of the foundation; Mrs.
Templeton and Dr. Werner Landerer, chairman of the foundation’s board of directors.
(AMCONGEN photo by Schwarz)

Eee