--- Page 2 ---
ORMATI

[HLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

--- Page 3 ---
Strong free youth light way of hope for eastern Germans (all photos by Claude Jacoby, Information Division, HICOG)

behalf

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the United States mis-
sion in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

itis) Oop ooedougKK0d H. Warner Waid
Helen McLaughlin
Wilfried Saliger Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 040-042
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8428, 8691, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Information Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Distribution is handled by the Distri-
bution Unit, Communications Service
Office, Administrative Services Divi-
sion, Office of the Executive Director,
HICOG. Located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Frankfurt, Room 949,

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A,US Army

German mailing address is:

Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division, HICOG
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfur/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe:
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

-

TABLE OF CONTENTS

May 1952

Torches for Unity Pierce the “Iron Curtain” Inside front cover
Pictorial Feature

Cornerstone Laid for Bremen Center ...................... 2
Pictorial Feature

Frontier School...............0. 6. c cece cence cece eee eenee 3
Article by Haynes Mahoney

Women in Hesse........... 0. cece cece eee e cece eee ene 5
Article by Betsy Knapp

The Three Great Steps ............. 0. cc cee cece cece eee 9
Address by John J. McCloy

The Council of Europe .............. 0. cee cece cece eens 11
Review by Department of State

General Eisenhower's Farewell to Germany .......... 16—17
Pictorial Feature

HICOG's Field Offices Complete Activities in June ........ 18
Personnel Notes ..............ecceeee cece e cece ence ee ees 19
American Ideas Invigorating ....................0.000008 20
Review of Exchangee’s US Tour ‘
In and Around Germany ........... 0... cece cece cece eee 21
German Editorials and Cartoons.......................... 26
Slight Spring Expansion .......................0000 ccc 29
Economic Review for April
Official Notices ............. cece cece cece eee e eee ee 32
Airliner Inspected for Soviet Damage...... Inside back cover

Pictorial Feature -

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Emil Theil (left), Bremen senator for construction, receives
hammer from workmen, dressed in traditional clothes.

Dr. King delivering speech during cornerstone ceremony.

View of foundation construction at site of the new center.

Cornerstone Laid
for Bremen Center

The cornerstone for a new vocational education center
in Bremen, to be erected at a cost of $942,755, was laid in
an impressive ceremony April 23. Funds for the three
buildings, comprising the center, were provided in an
allocation of DM 1,961,241 ($466,775) from HICOG's Special
Project Fund and DM 2,000,000 ($476,000) from the City of
Bremen,

The new center will afford facilities for a well-rounded
technical and civic training program to prepare youth for
vocations in industry, business, commerce and household
work and to help them gain the information, understanding
and skill needed to be effective citizens, Facilities also
will be provided for extra-curricular activities, including
libraries, auditorium, cafeteria and recreation.

Speaking at the ceremony, Dr, Allen Y. King, public
affairs officer of the American Consulate General in Bre-
men, said, “Not only in Germany but also beyond its
borders Bremen has a very good reputation for its fine
school buildings and for all those developments which
have been carried through in the field of education...
The planning of this center reflects much credit upon the
people of the community, its civic leaders and especially
its educational leadership.”

Of HICOG's contribution to the project, Dr, King said,
“We are glad to have been able to supply two million
marks out of tax funds paid by the American people for
this fine vocational center, We are convinced of the fact
that the training Bremen youth have in this center will
enable them to become men and women who will be pre-
pared to do their best for their city, their country and for
the entire world.”

Photos by Georg Schmidt from AMCONGEN, Bremen

--- Page 6 ---
Frontier School

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Information Officer, Nuremberg Public Affairs Regional Center

OR 50 YEARS the people of Ostheim, a village of

3,000 in Mellrichstadt county on the North Bavarian
border, struggled to build 'a new school. Each succeeding
generation saw its hopes for the children defeated by
a war or subsequent economic catastrophe.

Today, however, less than four years after currency
reform of June 1948 wiped out the last accumulated
funds, a new and modern three-story school building is
in use on the village green, about two miles from the
Soviet Zone border. A bronze plaque beside the door
proclaims that “this building was constructed with the
aid of funds from the United States.”

The Ostheim Elementary School is a physical tribute
to the influence of the HICOG Special Projects program,
which has sparked vigorous dethocratic action in some
of the smallest and most remote corners of Germany.
Hearing about the American program to help those who
help themselves, Alfred Hauser, the town’s mayor in
1950, launched his community into an enthusiastic
campaign to raise a substantial part of the funds.

Through fairs, benefit programs and a concerted appeal
to all villagers, the little town collected DM 120,000
($28,560) in cash, property and donated materials. Kenneth
Martindale, local US resident officer, worked with local
authorities to present an adequate application to the
Special Projects board which eventually resulted in a
grant of DM 100,000 ($23,800). The remainder of the funds

for the building which cost DM 280,000 ($66,640) was
contributed by the State of Bavaria.

PAWNED IN A CAMPAIGN of democratic action, the
J new structure is designed to become an instrument
for continuing this community spirit. It encompasses the
latest ideas of a modern school, as well as the villagers’
plans for using it nighttimes as a community center. Not
a few of these modern concepts were injected by Dr.
Hauser, now county administrator of Mellrichstadt, who
had visited America on the Exchanges Program in 1949,
and School Principal Max Beister, who in his 20 years of
service in Ostheim had not lost touch with the deve-
loping methods of liberal education.

In fact Mr. Beister proudly urges district government
officials to use his school as a model for education
officials in northern Bavaria.

“Teachers from other parts of the border area should
be brought to our school to see its arrangements and
our teaching methods,” Beister said.

The exterior of Ostheim's showplace is not revolutio-
nary. The architect rejected the Flachbau, ranch-type
building of many wings and glass walls, in favor of the
traditional multiple story type out of financial consider-
ations and “the requirements of local architecture and
scenery.’ Within, however, the large windows, indirect
lighting and light moveable furniture give basis for the

Part of the dedication ceremony was (right photo) the planting of a tree on the school grounds by three
school boys. Officials shown watching: (left to right) Ewald Bauerfachs, local forester; Max Beister,
school principal, and Dr. Alfred Hauser, county administrator. Following the ceremony (left photo) the

children marched to a festival on nearby Tanzberg.

(HICOC photos by Jacoby)

ee HE

--- Page 7 ---
school principal's pride. Recognizing that the Ostheim
school would suffer overcrowded classes for some time
because of the teacher shortage, the principal and the
architect worked out a system of small reading rooms
between each of the eight large classrooms. Teachers
can separate groups of unusually advanced or retarded
youngsters for special work in these small rooms. One
of them also will become a library, an institution not
usually included in German elementary schools, which
will be initially stocked with books provided by the
US Public Affairs Office at Schweinfurt.

For vocational training a modern electric kitchen has
been installed in the basement, and metal work and
carpentry shops will eventually be equipped. Showers
are already available and a sports field will be laid out
on the surrounding meadow.

UT THE HICOG FUNDS were granted for a ‘School
and Community Center,’ and while Ostheimers
commonly refer to the institution as a Volksschule, it is
obvious that they do not expect it to be locked up at
2 o'clock every afternoon as are so many schools in
German communities. They are now planning to use the

rooms for afternoon activities of out-of-school youth. They
are already working on the organization of an adult edu-
cation institute which will present lectures and courses
for the older Ostheimers, as a supplement to the learning
they got in the grim medieval building which served as a
school up until the new institution opened in late April.

An auditorium, with capacity for 250 persons, will be
used for film showings and cultural programs. Thus it
is expected that the school will become a hub of
cultural programs and community activities for young
and old — a focal point for continuing the cooperative
spirit which inspired its construction. ,

Ostheim stands at the end of the world. Two miles to
the north, a low range of hills marks the end of our
Western world, and indicates the beginning of a strange
land — where moral values are reversed, where war
means peace, dictatorship signifies democracy, and all
non-communists are called fascists.

The people of Ostheim have in a sense erected a
frontier school, dedicated to preserving and extending
the spirit of individual freedom and community action
which are so ruthlessly ‘suppressed across the border to
the north. +END

Sickness Rate High

NADEQUATE MEDICAL’ CONTROLS in Soviet Zone

plants and factories, plus a shortage of qualified medi-
cal personnel, resulted in an increase of 10 percent in
the incidence of sickness among East German workers
between 1950 and 1951. In some plants the rate of time-
loss due to sickness doubled during 1951, and thousands
of Soviet Zone workers not reported as sick suffered
from exhaustion and strain, a HICOG report revealed.

Causes of the rise in the incidence of sickness range
from poor ventilation, which forces many plant em-
ployees to breathe air contaminated by alcohol, benzine
and poisonous gases, to ineffective intra-plant safety
measures. The latter factor results in high accident rates,
particularly in factories such as the Hescho-Kahle insu-
lator works at Hermsdorf, where the disability rate for
personnel working around ovens ranges from about 19
to 25 percent.

In general, the inadequacy of medical treatment and
controls has led to widespread absenteeism and to ma-
lingering on a broad scale. Among secondary factors
contributing to the high sickness rate are primitive sani-
tary facilities and failure to effect mechanical improve-
ments in faulty plant equipment and machinery. Protec-
tive clothing or safety devices are often unavailable.

The over-all incidence of sickness among Soviet Zone
workers is from three to seven or eight times as high as
among plant and factory employees in the Federal Re-
public, reports indicate. In the VEB Mechanik Zeiss-Ikon
plant in Dresden, where modern ventilation facilities are
practically unknown, the most frequently reported ill-
nesses were headaches and related ailments resulting
from constant breathing of alcohol fumes.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

in

Soviet Zone Plants

Disability among workers at the “Deutschland” and
“Karl Liebknecht" coalpits near Oelsnitz rose from 9.5
percent to 11.1 percent in the first three months of 1951
as a result of overwork. Even young persons suffered
from severe attacks of weakness and exhaustion while
trying to meet high production quotas.

At the VEB Mine-Lamp Factory in Zwickau, where
more than 1,500 persons are employed, over 50 percent
of the plant's laborers work with toxic substances under
dangerous and inadequate conditions. Sickness rate for
the factory as a whole is 8 percent, though in the wom-
en's department the disability average is 11 percent.

The “Fortschritt’ (Progress) shaft of the ‘Wilhelm
Pieck"’ copper mine at Eisleben had an estimated sick-
ness rate during 1951 of about 18 percent.

Only one full-time doctor and one assistant doctor are .
available to provide medical treatment for the 5,000
workers employed in plants around Zschornewitz, with
the result that laborers frequently lose time because of
preventable sickness, colds and exhaustion.

Because of absolete equipment and sanitary instal-
lations in the Iron Works at Thale, employing 1,900
workers, the sickness rate increased from about seven
to nine percent during 1951. At this factory drinking
water is often bad, and employees are in constant
danger of infection.

For months during 1951 a working day of 14 to 14
hours was mandatory at the “Karl Marx” printing plant
in Poessneck, even though the Soviet Zone’s “Labor Pro-
tection Office’ authorizes a maximum of only 10 hours.,
In July 1951, when orders fell off, 100 men were dismis-
sed as unable to work because of physical overstrain.

MAY 1952

--- Page 8 ---
Minifrer — Minifter
der f Arbeit,
Juftiz — Landwirt

WirtIchaft

Chart of Hessian government prepared for presentation to women's groups is discussed by (left to tight)
Miss Liselotte Schroth, public- affairs consultant; Miss Dorothea Groener-Geyer, staff member, and Mrs.

Antje Lemke, director of Women's Service Bureau, Miss Knapp, author of this article.

(Photo by Rudi Herzog)

Women in Hesse

By BETSY KNAPP

Regional Public Affairs Office, US Consulate General, Frankfurt
Formerly Women’s Affairs Adviser, OLC Hesse

A FRESH BREEZE in Women's Organizations" was the
title of a talk given recently in Wiesbaden by a leader
of a Hessian women's group who had just returned froma
cultural exchange visit to the United States. A “fresh
breeze" is blowing these days through all types of women's
activities in the German state of Hesse. In every county
new forces at work are encouraging an increasing number
of women to interest themselves in public questions and
to take the initiative in tackling problems which are of
concern to the whole community.
lhe story of the Marburg School Building Association
offers a good example. In the spring of 1951, the Parent-
Teacher Association of Marburg became concerned about
the serious shortage of space in their elementary schools.
When the state government announced that it would give
fiscal support to an expensive and relatively less-needed
girl's high school, the reaction of the PTA, sparked by a
leader of the city’s Women's Association, was immediate
and vigorous, ,

MAY 1952

CAMPAIGN WAS organized to raise money for a new

elementary school. It featured an inspection of schools
by parents, a main-street parade of children carrying
posters reading “We need a New Elementary School,"
“For 76 Children Only ONE Room" and a public meeting
in the market place. In the meantime, facts on building
costs were busily gathered and a School Building Associ-
ation organized,

Then came a drive for funds which included solicitations
from individuals and special projects ranging from school
plays to a sale in the market place of wild flowers that
Marburg children had picked in nearby woods.

A total of DM 6,300 ($1,499.40) was collected, but the
results went far beyond this. Within a few days, it was
announced that the girls’ high school project had been
postponed, Later, the city gave the land for the proposed
new elementary school, and the government of Hesse
allocated DM 425,000 ($101,150) to finance it. The plans
have now been approved by the city government and
construction will be started soon,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Mrs. Rohtraut Schulz-Baesken, the woman who gave
the project much of its initial impetus, was asked where
she got the idea for putting it in motion. She replied that
she did not know “exactly” but cited a number of ideas
she had picked up in the past four or five years from
meetings of women’s organizations where foreign visitors
and exchange returnees explained ways in which citizens
organize to solve community problems in the United
States, England and other democratic countries.

N THE SAME way that the Marburg group's action

blossomed into a striking demonstration of the power
of the organized citizen, women throughout Hesse have
been acting on new ideas and suggestions and have been
demonstrating their desire and ability to play a more
active part in public affairs. Two undertakings in the
country of Hanau illustrate the kind of initiative they
show in practical project planning.

As in many other cities, there has been an acute need
in highly-industrialized Hanau for more kindergarten
space for the children of working mothers. At the sug-
gestion of the women’s affairs specialist of the US resident
office, a committee of women including a city councilor,
the director of a vocational school, the head of the city
youth office and some students came together to consider
the problem,

Student members of the committee conducted a survey
which revealed that 25 percent of Hanau children between
the ages of six and 14 were without home care because
their mothers worked. A three-way plan was worked out:
to get contributions for a building fund from factory em-
ployers (since more than 40 percent of the women are em-
ployed in industrial plants); to ask the city for land and
a regular contribution for maintenance; and to interest the
Red Cross in acting as sponsor and meeting the rest of the
operating costs.

To date DM 15,300 ($3,641.40) of the DM 35,000 ($ 8,330)
needed for the building have been raised. The land is

assistance-to-farm-women project

(Evamaria Blume photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

available. There is assurance that responsibility for oper-
ation and maintenance will be assumed by the Red Cross
and the city. With this start, construction can begin. Plans,
meanwhile, are underway for securing the remainder of
the funds through gifts of construction materials, voluntary
contributions of labor by apprentices, further cash dona-
tions from employers, benefit performances and other —
money-raising projects. But final success is assured all
because of the careful planning and organizational work
of a women's committee.

IMILAR THOUGHTFUL action brought success on a

much smaller scale in a village of 123 inhabitants, not
far from Hanau, where village children were unhappy
because the five large windows of the one-room school
had no shades, One window was given as a Christmas
present from the village, but there was not enough money
in the budget for the other four. Someone suggested the
German-American Women's Club of Hanau as a source
of help, but no one wanted to ask for a gift. So, 68 eggs
contributed by village women were collected, and ac- |
companied by a message from the children, were taken to
the club for sale, The profit of DM 54 ($12.85) bought not
only the four curtains but also four books for the school
library.

These community self-help stories are typical of what
is going on in many other counties of Hesse, Kinder-
garten projects are numerous. Others are: sewing centers,
community centers and laundries, living centers for work- 7
ing women, systems for providing domestic assistance for
working or sick mothers, the establishment of advisory
centers for helping people find answers to pressing eco-
nomic and social problems. Close to 60 activities have |
been completed or are underway, and money-raising cam-~
paigns are common.

One of the influences which has stimulated much of © 4
this community work has been the striking development _ :
of councils of women's organizations as mechanisms for
coordinating the work of the different organizations. 3

HE WOMEN’S Work Council of Hersfeld is a good

illustration. In January 1950, representatives of 12
women's groups — welfare, church, civic, trade union
rural, refugee, housewives, political parties — established
an informal clearing house for exchanging information.
This body has developed three primary methods for ef-
fective work: coordinating action on projects of interest
to all groups, serving as a medium for existing influence:
on city officials and acting as a source of stimulation om
the educational programs of the member groups.

On the coordination side, the Hersfeld work-councl
groups cooperate on welfare projects and on the establish-
ment of such community facilities as a playground,
kitchen where low-cost meals are served, and an ad-
visory center for social and economic problems. fe!

Valuable working relations with the city government
have been established. For example, the women recently
visited a housing exhibition in Hanover, and on their

--- Page 10 ---
Study at Advisory Center in Kirchhain (Arnold Zahn photo)

return, they accompanied members of the local housing
committee on an inspection of new dwellings. A follow-up
step was appointment of a member of the Council to the
housing committee, A a result members of the Women’s
Work Council are almost certain to be invited to meetings
where matters of general community concern are dis-
cussed, The Council resolutions furthermore may, get a
ready hearing from city government committees.

The technique ,of the Hersfeld Work Council in adult
education is equally well developed. From time to time,
a lecture is arranged on some subject of outstanding
importance such as Communist and neo-Fascist propa-
ganda, occupation costs, and American financial assistance
to Germany and then each group is encouraged to hold
individual meetings to discuss the same topic.

The growth of efficient patterns of cooperation among
the women's groups through work councils has resulted in
the establishment of similar councils in 26 counties in
a two-year period.

NE OF THE most popular and successful of the com-

munity projects undertaken by the women’s councils
has been the establishment of the advisory centers. In the
past 15 months, 11 advisory centers have been set up.

These centers are staffed by qualified women doctors,
lawyers and social workers on a volunteer basis, and
consulting hours are established two or three half-days a
week. Here one can get suggestions, for example, on how
to find adequate housing, what to do for the delinquent
child, how to straighten out questions about pensions and
other social security rights, and what to do about separa-
tion of property in divorce cases. Rooms are usually
donated by the city government and there is cooperation
and support from most city offices.

A Service Bureau for Women's Organizations, es-
tablished in October 1950 with the assistance of American
grant-in-aid funds, has become an important clearing
house for ideas and information, for the exchange of
experience between one part of Hesse and another and for

MAY 1952

modest financial assistance to civic projects. The Bureau,
headed by Mrs. Antje Lemke, has a professional staff of
four, and is one unit of the Association’for Increasing
Citizen Participation in Public Affairs in Wiesbaden. The
program features promotion of citizenship education, dis-
semination of non-partisan, factual information and direct
assistance to women's groups.

Each month a five-day course on “women as citizens”
is held in cooperation with the Haus Schwalbach leadership
training center. A total of 340 women have attended the
first 12 courses, receiving practical information on a
citizenship topic, such as city councils, school reform and
parent-teacher cooperation, political economics and the
housewife, or social welfare. In addition to this basic
course, the Bureau has given assistance to local citizenship
institutes for women. There have been 15 such courses in
13 counties in the past year.

'TAFF MEMBERS provide field service to the counties,

giving assistance to local groups and to individual
women who have expressed an interest in community
activity. Regular consultations and a packet of infor-
mational material are available to local leaders on request.
Help has been given recently to committees working to
establish Business and Professional Women's Clubs to be
affiliated with the new German Federation of Business and
Professional Women. As a result, five such clubs have
come into existence in Hesse.

The Bureau has also provided speakers to strengthen the
quality of civic education programs. In the past year
approximately 200 speakers have been made available
in 29 counties. At the present time, the Service Bureau is
giving financial assistance in 11 counties for seven ad-
visory centers, three work councils and three local news
bulletins, as well as the headquarters of one state-wide
women's organization.

The Bureau acts as a center for the distribution of fac-
tual information on public issues. A bimonthly bulletin,

Representatives of women’s organizations in Hesse meet

to discuss women questions (all photos furnished by OLCH)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
“Information for Women" has, until recently, been pub-
lished and distributed to 4,000 Hessian women and 6,000
women in othet parts of western Germany. Work-kits are
prepared to meet special needs, such as material for plan-
ning activities that will increase the amount of informed
participation in local elections,

The local US resident offices have assisted the civic
work of women in Hesse. In 23 of these offices young
German assistants have devoted either part or full time to
the promotion of women’s citizen participation. In many
counties, the resident officers’ wives have also devoted
regular time to the work.*

NEW “Homemobile” has brought a special form of help

to rural areas. With an instructor in charge, this
exhibit on household management and improvements
traveled to 18 communities in the past six months. Reports
from the counties indicate two trends which reflect in part
the result of work carried on at the local level: in 26
counties many new groups, especially housewives organi-
zations, farm women's organizations and independent
women's organizations and independent women's clubs,
have been established and in 19 counties, increase in the
civic content of women's programs in some 30 to 40
organizations has been reported.

Mrs. Erna Schlepper, new executive secretary of the
Hessian Women's Civic Association, recently returned
from a study visit in the United States, and is adapting
ideas she saw applied there. Another exchangee, member of
the organization's board, is concerned with the farm
women's place in the community and is working for closer
relations between city women and farm women.

In Hanau, two members of the committee which planned
the kindergarten project were exchangees. A woman who
is both leader of the housewives’ association and a mem-
ber of the city council in another Hessian city reports that
her organization has increased membership from 90 to 248

* See ''We Live in a Glass House," Information Bulletin, January 1952.

since her return, Although her members, like most other
housewives’ groups, still take to discussion of civic and
political issues in a very limited, indirect way, develop-
ment of a greater degree of group responsibility in pro-
gram planning is producing vitality in the organization.
These activities in the civic work of Hessian women’s
groups demonstrates progress in their programs, in prac-
tical community work, in the dissemination of non-
partisan information and in citizenship education.

eer

HAT OF THE assumption of citizen responsibility on

political issues? Progress here is also measurable
but quite naturally comes a bit more slowly than in com- _
munity work on social questions. There are, however, —
a number of heartening developments.

More than a year ago, the Communists tried to organize
women’s circles in Hesse and to disrupt other women’s
groups. They got nowhere. Communist-inspired groups
are of no significance in Hesse and the Communists have
been excluded from the work councils and women's
associations.

There has been steady increase in the number of com-
munities where women's groups have been able to
influence public officials. In Darmstadt, for example, 13
organizations working together found that they could get
a promise of city support for more kindergartens, whereas
one group alone had not even received an answer to its
letter. In Kassel, the women discovered that when they ~
combined forces, the city administration moved ahead on _
badly needed repairs in refugee barracks. This not only
proved a way for getting action but also gave reality to
the Women's Work Council in that city. It led to further
success in having the city improve administrative ar-
rangements for paying unemployment benefits.

With success in so many fields of community activities,
self-confidence is growing among Hessian women, and this _
is an important adjunct to their efforts to become truly
responsible citizens. +ENDI,

Japanese Woman Leader Visits Germany

Taki Fujita, director of the Japanese Government's wom-
en's affairs bureau, was in Germany during April to con-
sult with HICOG and West German women leaders and to
study problems and working conditions of German women.

Miss Fujita, who is the highest woman appointee within
the Japanese Government, conferred with Mrs. Mildred
Allport, HICOG women's affairs adviser, and visited
several factories in the Frankfurt region.

In Stuttgart, Miss Fujita consulted with Mrs. Anna Haag,
German writer and lecturer; in Karlsruhe, she spoke
before a panel workshop on women’s problems; and in
Berlin, she met Mayor Ernst Reuter, women and_. trade
union leaders. She returned to Tokyo following brief visits
in Zurich, Switzerland, and Rome.

Miss Fujita’s trip to ‘Germany was sponsored by the
Women's Affairs Staff of HICOG's Division of Cultural
Relations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Miss Fujita (left) conferred in Berlin with Mrs. Loui:
Schroeder, who is one of the foremost women leaders
Germany and was acting mayor of former capital cil
during the Soviet blockade in 1948-49. (HICOG-Berlin phot

--- Page 12 ---
The Three Great Steps

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

| REALLY WARMED to be in Bernkastel again.
Some 33 or 34 years ago, as a young officer, I was
billeted in Trier just up the river from here. I did not
have any onerous official duties and I made many visits
to Bernkastel. During that time I never ceased to enjoy
the beauty of this valley.

It was here that I first heard of a man called Bern-
kasteler Doktor. One pleasant afternoon I met a young
lady here who condescended to teach me a little German
while we stood together on the bridge. It was a delight-
ful lesson and I hope she is. now in the audience to judge
for herself how much I have progressed since that far-off
time.

In those days I was here in a different capacity. No
doubt I had many cares, which were as important to me
then as present ones are now, but somehow I have quite
forgotten what they were. Now I come back with little
hair, with wife and children, and meanwhile great forces
have intervened to make the world look different too.
Yet so many things are the same.

The Mosel still flows and the Porta Nigra still stands.
Bernkastel itself looks about the same as it did to me
in the spring of 1919. The Doktor is still here. We talked
about the Saar then as we do now. Now my wife and
children struggle to teach me the language. I could grow
very sentimental about it all if I let myself go.

| ee NOT WISH to spoil this joyous day by making
a speech or by talking politics. Nevertheless, there are
a few points I would like to discuss because decisions
of great importance for our future are about to be made.
It is essential that the German people fully understand
them.

First, I would like to say a few words about the con-
tractual arrangements and the European Defense Com-
munity. It is important for all of us, particularly for every
German, to see the entire picture. We are engaged in
taking three great steps at the same time: we are liqui-
dating war, we are making peace and we are concluding
a great alliance. ‘

Liquidation of the war is inescapable. It is essential if
we are to have a platform upon which to build our
alliance of peace. Liquidation means that the German
people will be expected to meet certain obligations, to
Carry certain burdens and to observe certain limitations

Printed here is the text, without introductory remarks, of
@ speech delivered May 10 by Mr. McCloy at the dedica-
tion of the new school at Bernkastel, Rhineland-Palatinate.

MAY 1952

-
that result from the terrible war which, under Hitler's
tule, was waged for almost six years against the world.
Liquidation of this war requires the recognition by Ger-
mans of certain principles which will not be given up.

EEP IN MIND also that the wart imposed tremendous

burdens on all nations. Today France, Britain, the
United States, to mention only three countries, are car-
rying and will continue to carry crushing burdens as the
aftermath of that war. Moreover, the establishment of a
partnership to maintain the peace will mean burdens and
obligations for all Western nations. For my own country,
the commitments being made in the contractual agree-
ments are unprecedented in our history. In the weeks
ahead Germans must look at the agreements as a whole
and not only at those provisions which cover obligations
the Federal Republic will assume. The commitment to
stand together is mutual and in our mutual interest.

The governments. and public opinion in the Western
countries have come a long way since 1945 in extending
friendship to the German people. They have given the
German people vital support in the rebuilding of this
country. They honestly wish to see the Federal Republic
associated with them in equal partnership. The agree-
ments we are soon to sign are solid proof of our desire
for peaceful alliance.

In the face of the Communist threat, I believe the
people of the Federal Republic know that their personal
liberties and peace would be jeopardized if they did not
join in partnership with the West. They recognize that
in partnership there is give and take, there are burdens
and rewards. In our peaceful alliance Germany will not
dominate or be dominated. We must all work together.
Above all, the German people know, I am sure, that in
the partnership of the European-Atlantic community there
is the best chance of security, liberty, prosperity — and
the reunification of the German people.

OW MAY I SAY a few words about German reuni-
fication and the exchange of notes that is presently
going on. -

We have had many deep disappointments in our rela-
tions with the Soviet Union since 1945. The 19,000,000
Germans in the East Zone of Germany and in East Berlin
have had their own bitter experience of life under Soviet
control.

All of us know — if we look at Communist aggression
in Korea, if we observe the Armistice negotiations there,
if we consider the conference on German unification at
the Palais Rose —that dealing with the Communists is
difficult, time-consuming and frustrating. That is why in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
the present exchange of notes we are not prepared to
play the role of Alice in Wonderland. We want firm
evidence, firm facts. We have all suffered too much
—Germans included—to jeopardize the progress we
have made.

I am certain that in the forthcoming reply to the last
Soviet note we will do everything possible to explore
honest moves in the direction of German unity.

.

HAT I SHALL NOW say will not be included in

any note. The Soviets would demonstrate much more

sincerity, if, instead of spreading their so-called peace
and unity propaganda, they would do something or other
along the following lines:

Immediately release all German prisoners of war
from Soviet Camps.

Immediately release all political prisoners from
the jails of the East Zone.

Permit the free and unlimited circulation of West
Berlin, West German and other newspapers and
magazines in the East sector and East sector and
East zone of Germany.

If the Soviets are sincere about unification they
will free all innocent German men and women from
their places of detention. Certainly they should not
object to the free exchange of published material
between both parts of Germany, now throttled by
their policy of censorship and control. German uni-

fication would be nearer if the citizens of Dresden,
Leipzig and all parts of the Soviet Zone of Germany
could read without any fear or punishment the
newspapers of West Berlin, Frankfurt, Stuttgart,
Munich and Hamburg.

EFORE I CLOSE I want to say a few words to the
young people here. Our participation in the building
of this Berufsschule (vocational school) is an indica-
tion of the faith we have in the youth of this country.
It has been a deep satisfaction to me that the United
States has been able to aid in the building of hundreds
of projects for youth in Germany — youth centers, student
dormitories, teacher-training institutes and many others.
We have one idea only — +o help free boys and girls
become citizens of Europe, citizens of the world.

To me this river is a symbol. It flows from the hills
of France, along the border of Luxembourg, between these
beautiful vineyards on its way to the Rhine. Romans,
Celts, French, Luxembourgers, Germans have all helped to
build a flourishing civilization in this magnificent valley.

Is there any doubt that this river is truly European?
Can there be any doubt that the young people growing
up along its banks should look upon themselves first,
and above all, as citizens of Europe?

In the coming weeks the agreements we are to sign will
be anact of faith — faith in a free Europe and a free world.
All of us, particularly the youth, now have the opportunity
to transform this faith into living reality. -+END

25,000 Books Given Free University

URING THE PAST six months more than 25,000 vol-

umes of scientific books and journals have been
sent to the Free University of Berlin as a special gift
from the World Brotherhood Organization it was an-
nounced today by Hermann Ebeling, American liaison
representative of World Brotherhood.

The books were collected by the US Division of World
Brotherhood in a nationwide drive known as the “Books
for Freedom Campaign" from American universities, tech-
nical societies and professional organizations. They will
be housed in the new library now being constructed with
the aid of a Ford Foundation grant of $1,309,000.

The books, in both English and German, range in sub-
ject from political sience, economics, physics and ge-
ography, to philosophy, religion and history. There are
also books and annual journals from the fields of engi-
neering, law, social service and medicine. A special book
collection on human relations, dealing with problems of
racial, religious and nationality relations, has been in-
cluded in the shipments.

American universities gave large numbers of books
from their libraries in response to an.appeal by Dr. Arthur
H. Compton, chancellor of Washington University and
general chairman of World Brotherhood. The University

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

of Pennsylvania, one of the larger contributors, gave 600
books in a ceremony at which its president, Harold Stas-
sen, presented the books to Benson Ford, US co-chairman
of World Brotherhood.

In addition, gifts of books and money were made by
US labor unions, foundations, religious societies, book
publishers and business firms. Students at universities
took part in the campaign as did librarians throughout
the United States. The thousands of books were received
and indexed before shipping by volunteer committees of ©
citizens of Perth Amboy, N. J.

Paul Hoffman, Ford Foundation president, stated that
the frant for the new library was made “in recognition
of the great contribution being made by the Free Uni-
versity, against heavy odds, to the strengthening of intel-
lectual leadership in West Germany, and to democratic
education for responsible leadership.”

In reference to the “Books for Freedom Campaign,” Dr.
Compton stated: ‘This is more than a gesture of friend-
ship to the people of Germany wo are aligned with us
in our fight against tyranny. It is an expression of con-
cern for the future of scholarship in Free Europe and for
the development of intellectual freedom in a country that
stands as the first dike against the threatening floods of
dictatorship.”

MAY 1952

--- Page 14 ---
The Council of Europe

HE CONCEPT OF a united Europe, which, is many

centuries old, gained renewed significance with the
revival of interest in international and European organi-
zation after World War I. European unification was
pressed by such private organizations as the Pan-Euro-
pean Union and also received support from some Euro-
pean statesmen such as Aristide Briand of France and
Karl Renner of Austria. Mr. Briand’s plan for a European
union was carefully studied by the League of Nations
but could not be put into operation because of the di-
visive effects of the world depression and the rise of
totalitarian states.

During World War II interest in European union again
revived, In 1944 the governments-in-exile of Belgium, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg signed a treaty which pro-
vided for their eventual economic union. Immediately
after the war numejous popular groups arose to rally
public sentiment behind European unification. These
groups, most of whom later united to form what was
called the European Movement, claimed the support of
such prominent political leaders as Paul-Henri Spaak,
Winston Churchill, Carlo Sforza, Georges Bidault and
Paul Ramadier.

Economic dislocation in the war-torn countries and the
fear of aggression brought increased cooperation among
the nations of Europe in the economic and military fields.
The United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
was organized soon after the war to assist rehabilitation
and to further economic cooperation among European
countries. The Organization for European Economic Co-
operation (OEEC), formed in April 1948 among the
Marshall Plan countries, worked toward European re-
covery and closer economic cooperation among the
member states.

The Brussels Pact, signed in March 1948, laid the basis for
military cooperation and for consultation on other major
problems affecting the five participants, the United King-
dom, France, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.

IHESE DEVELOPMENTS WERE, however, insufficient
to satisfy the supporters of European union. The
French Parliament in March 1948 passed a resolution call-
ing for a European constituent assembly to establish a
European federation. In May 1948 a

ment invited the other Brussels-Pact powers to meet for
consideration of the formation of a European parliament.
The British were reluctant to support the idea of an as-
sembly, preferring rather a committee of ministers. How-
ever, after considerable negotiation, the Brussels-Pact pow-
ers agreed upon a compromise and decided to create a
Council of Europe composed of two organs, a Committee
of Ministers, which would make recommendations to the
member governments upon unanimous agreement, and a
Consultative Assembly, which would be a deliberative
body empowered to discuss. problems and make recom-
mendations to the Committee of Ministers. In the spring of
1949 five other European countries were invited to join
with these powers in working out final details for tke
creation of the Council of Europe. On May 5; 1949, the
Statute of the Council of Europe was signed by. the 10
original members. .

The original members of the Council of Europe were
France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands,
Luxembourg, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Italy and Ire-
land. Greece and Turkey were invited to become mem-
bers during the first session in 1949, and they joined
immediately. Iceland, which had been invited at the same
time, became a member in March 1950. A few months
later, in 1950, the German Federal Republic and the Saar
were given associate memberships, which entitled them
to representation in the Consultative Assembly but not
in the Committee of Ministers. On May 2, 1951, the Ger-
man Federal Republic was admitted to full membership
in the Council of Europe.

CCORDING TO THE statute of the Council, the aim
of the Council iis to ‘achieve unity between its mem-
bers for the purpose of safeguarding and realizing the
ideals and principles which are their common heritage
and facilitating their economic and social progress.” To
this end it is to discuss questions of common concern
and reach agreements for “common action in economic,
social, cultural, scientific, legal and administrative mat-
ters and in the maintenance and further realization of
human rights and fundamental freedoms." Defense is the
only field in which the statute precludes the Council
from making recommendations to member governments.
At the time the Council of Europe was formed, other
organizations many of whose functions

congress of the European Movement
met at The Hague and passed a resolu-

tion supporting the formation of a State Bulletin,

European parliament. Although the
European Movement was a non-govern-
mental organization compgsed of pri-
vate groups, nearly every country
Sent all-party delegations sponsored
by the political parties.

In August 1948 the French Govern-

This article is reprinted from the
April 7 issue of the Department of
official weekly
publication, for the information of
US personnel stationed in Germany.
It also appears as Foreign Affairs
Outline, Department of State Publi-
cation 4492, which is on sale for
five cents by the Superintendent of
Documents, Washington 25, D. C.

were similar to those of the Council of
Europe, such as UNESCO, the Inter-
national Labor Organization (ILO), and
OEEC, were already in existence. In
order to avoid duplication of the work
of these organizations, Article 23 of the
statute provides that in planning its
agenda the assembly ‘‘shall have re-
gard to the work of other European
intergovernmental organizations to

MAY 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
which some of all of the members of the Council are
parties.”

Agreements are now being worked out for cooperation
between the Council of Europe and ILO and UNESCO.
Representatives from OEEC and the Council of Europe
form a liaison committee between OEEC and the Council,
one of whose functions is to coordinate the activities of
the two bodies.

The role of the Council of Europe is not limited to the
specific projects which it originates and implements. Of
equal importance is its role as a stimulus to unified
action, a constructive critic, and a rallying point for
European public opinion.

In its role as a stimulus to action, the Council of
Europe may direct attention to the need for coordinated,
expanded or redirected action in a particular field such
as that of refugees and surplus population. Although, as
the problem is examined, it may sometimes develop that
the Council of Europe is not the organization best equip-
ped to carry out the particular program, the Council will
have served its purpose by stimulating action.

HE ROLE OF THE Council of Europe as a construc-

tive critic is increasing, and the Committee of
Ministers is now considering means of further developing
this side of the Council's work. OEEC now submits a
report on its activities for discussion in the Assembly.
The Schuman Plan treaty likewise provides that the High
Authority of the proposed Coal and Steel Community
shall submit its annual report to the Committee of
Ministers and the Consultative Assembly and that the
Common Assembly of the Community shall submit an
annual report to the Consultative Assembly.

Paul-Henri Spaak has called the Consultative Assembly
“the Tribune of Europe.” Here 15 different European
viewpoints can be focused on the major problems con-
fronting Europe, and the spotlight of public opinion can
be directed to these issues. In carrying out this function
of rallying public opinion, the Consultative Assembly
has a role unique among European organizations.

The major organs of the Council of Europe are the
Consultative Assembly and the Committee of Ministers.
In addition, a Joint Committee, composed of represent-
atives from the Committee of Ministers and the Con-
sultative Assembly, discusses mutual problems and seeks
to eliminate any conflicts between the two organs. A
secretariat, headed by Secretary General Jacques-Camille
Paris, services these bodies.

The Committee of Ministers, the “upper body" of the
Council, is composed of the foreign ministers of the
member states or their deputies. The chairmanship of the
Committee of Ministers rotates among the members.
Among the statesmen who have represented their
countries in the Committee of Ministers are Dirk Stikker
of the Netherlands, Count Carlo Sforza of Italy, Konrad
Adenauer of Germany and Robert Schuman of France.

LL RECOMMENDATIONS MADE by the Council of
Europe to the member governments require the

unanimous approval of the Committee of Ministers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

Major substantive decisions require a unanimous vote,
but certain minor matters can be settled by a two-thirds
majority. Actually, most decisions are reached by unani-
mous agreement without the formality of a vote. The
ministers have recently adopted a procedure slightly
modifying the unanimity rule, which will allow “partial
agreements," i. e., agreements among certain members
which do not bind those who abstain. Recommendations
made by the Council of Europe are not legally binding
on the member governments, but, of course, since they
are made by high-level representatives they would
normally be reflected in the policy of the governments.

Sessions of the Committee of Ministers are held before
and after each session of the Assembly and on such other
occasions as the ministers may decide. Thus far, the
Committee has met approximately four times a year. The
meetings of the Committee of Ministers are held in pri-
vate unless the ministers unanimously decide otherwise.

The Consultative Assembly is a purely deliberative
body in which each country is represented according to
relative size. The delegations vary in number from 18
for France, Italy, Germany and the United Kingdom to
three for the Saar and Iceland. In the past delegations
were selected by member governments by whatever
means they chose.

Delegates were almost always members of the national
parliament and frequently were chosen by the political
parties. Members of opposition parties, except the Com-
munist, have been regularly included in the delegations.
Under a new amendment to the statute, delegates will
henceforth be selected by parliaments or in a manner
approved by parliaments rather than by the executive
branch of the member governments.

Among the European political leaders who have re-
presented their countries in the Consultative Assembly
are Georges Bidault, Winston Churchill, Finn Moe and:
Carlo Schmid. Paul-Henri Spaak has served three terms
as president of the Consultative Assembly.

Each member of the Consultative Assembly is seated
and votes as an individual rather than as a member of
ascountry bloc, an unusual procedure among inter-
national organizations. This has meant in practice that
members of national delegations can usually be found on
different sides of any issue.

HE ASSEMBLY MAY debate any matter within the
scope of the council. Matters for debate may either
originate in the Consultative Assembly or be referred to
it by the Committee of Ministers. A recommendation
requires a two-thirds vote before it can be submitted to
the Committee of Ministers. .
Originally, the Consultative Assembly met once a year
for one month at Strasbourg, France, the seat of the
Council of Europe. The long time-lag between its yearly
sessions retarded consideration of problems, particularly
those of primary interest to the Assembly. Therefore in
1950 the Assembly split its one-month session and, after -
meeting first in August, reconvened in November to
consider the action the Committee of Ministers had taken
on its recommendations. This procedure was followed

MAY 1952.

--- Page 16 ---
again in 1951 and will probably continue to be the
practice.

The Standing Committee of the Consultative Assembly
is responsible for Assembly activities during the period
between sessions, It is composed of the Bureau of the
Assembly, i.e., its president and vice presidents, and
23 representatives from the Assembly. Urgent problems
requiring prompt consideration by the relevant Assembly
committees are brought to their attention by this body.
The Standing Committee also supervises the implementa-
tion of Assembly decisions and coordinates the activities
of the various committees.

SUBJECT FOR consideration by the Council of

Europe can originate in either of the two major
organs. Although a proposal may originate in the Com-
mittee of Ministers and be submitted to member govern-
ments without reference to the Assembly, such a pro-
cedure would be rare. Most recommendations studied by
the Council of Europe have originated in the Consultative
Assembly. Upon presentation, a motion is ordinarily sent
to the approptiate Assembly committee fora report. The
committees of the Assembly are political rather than
technical bodies.

If the motion raises complex social and economic
questions, members of the committee may consult in-
formally with experts in the field or members of inter-
ested organizations and sometimes will work out the
formal details of a proposal in conjunction with another
international group. For example, the Draft Convention
on the Reciprocal Treatment of Nationals now under
consideration was prepared in cooperation with the
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law.
A draft report on a motion usually must receive a two-
thirds vote in committee before it is presented to the
Assembly.

After a proposal has been approved in the Assembly,
it is normally transmitted to the Committee of Ministers.
In certain cases however where the Assembly has been
anxious to bring parliamentary support to bear on the
Committee of Ministers, representatives have first intro-
duced recommendations in their own parliaments for
debate, in the hope that public and parliamentary senti-
ment would be aroused in support of the proposal.

When a proposal is presented to the Committee of
Ministers, the ministers may review the broad political
implications of a proposal; but, if the general principle
is acceptable, they usually prefer to have specific pro-
visions studied by experts before taking any final decision.

In order to avoid duplication of effort, the Committee
of Ministers may refer certain recommendations of the
Assembly to other organizations such as OEEC and
request a report on action already undertaken or con-
templated.

ACE STUDY BY THE secretariat or government ex-

perts the proposal is again considered by the min-
isters. After general approval by the Committee of
Ministers, the detailed or revised proposal may be

MAY 1952

13

returned to the Consultative Assembly or the Standing
Committee for comment. If there is conflict over particular
points, representatives from the Assembly and from the
Committee of Ministers attempt to reach agreement in
the Joint Committee. .

A proposal agreed upon by the Council may be im-
plemented in several different ways. It may be carried
out by the member governments themselves, or action
on it may be taken by the Council of Europe itself,
either alone or in cooperation with other organizations.
In certain cases other organizations of which these
countries are members may be asked to implement a
recommendation.

In the brief period since its formation in May 1949, the
Council of Europe has led an existence marked by con-
troversy. Even before the internal organization of the
Council had been established, it was torn by ‘conflict
over its functions, its powers, and its purpose. Conflict
over the method by which European cooperation could
best be achieved was accompanied by differences of
view between the Consultative Assembly and the Com-
mittee of Ministers. Spirited debates on these topics have
centered primarily around the problem of revision of the
statute of the Council of Europe.

HE DIFFERENCES IN approach to the problem of

European unity which were reflected in the organiza-
tion of the Council of Europe are clearly evident in this
controversy. In the Assembly, most of the representatives
from the continental powers favor a federal approach,
which would require certain sacrifices of national
sovereignty. .

Although the majority of the federalists now accept
the fact that a federation including all of Western Europe
cannot be attained immediately, they consider that supra-
national powers can be given to bodies which will be
empowered to administer particular segments or ‘‘func-
tions" in the European economy, These are considered
to be preliminary steps toward the long-range goal. This
group has been especially active in pushing for amend-
ments to enlarge the functions and powers of both the
Council and the Consultative Assembly. The British and
Scandinavians, sometimes called ‘‘functionalists," oppose
plans which would call for sacrifices of sovereignty,
preferring that specific problems be worked out on an
intergovernmental basis.

The debate on the problem of European federation
reached a climax in November 1950. During the first half
of the sessions the previous summer, the British and
Scandinavian delegates had told the others to go ahead
with regional federation if they 'so desired. At the session
in the fall of 1950, a proposal advocating regional federa-
tion was defeated in committee, although the British and
the Scandinavians did not oppose it. Many of those who
had previously supported federation were opposed to a
federation in which the British would not participate.

Although the question of radical revision of the statute
was thus settled at least temporarily, pressure for other

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
revisions continued to command the interest of the
Assembly. Many of these recommendations for amend-
ment had been pending since the first session of the
Assembly, and the lack of action by the ministers on
this matter had proved a‘major irritant in the relations
between the assembly and the ministers.

Many representatives, eager to see concrete progress
made, felt that their recommendations had been either
ignored or dealt with in a perfunctory or dilatory fashion,
On the occasions of the ministers’ regular reports to the
Consultative .Assembly, some representatives voiced
bitter attacks against the Committee of Ministers and the
states which they thought had taken particularly negative
positions. The Joint Committee, established in mid-1950,
however, brought greater understanding between the
two organs.

T THE SIXTH SESSION of the Committee of Ministers

in November 1950, the ministers accepted the prin-
ciple of specialized authorities and revision of the statute.
A committee of senior officials was then established to
review the changes suggested by the Assembly.

During the interim between November and the session
in May 1951, a series of steps were taken which were to
result in decided improvement of relations between the
Consultative Assembly and the Committee of Ministers
at the spring session. Although not accepting the amend-
ments regarding the abolition of veto or elimination of
the restriction on defense, the ministers did agree upon
a number of amendments, which for the most part
embodied the Assembly's wishes on such questions as
agenda and selection of representatives.

The ministers also reached agreement on a number of
other questions including the admission of new members
and the conclusions of conventions. Advances were also
made ‘toward closer relations with other European organi-
zations. In early spring, a liaison committee between
the Council of Europe and OEEC was established to
facilitate exchange of information and to assist in har-
monizing the activities of the two organizations. A
further step was taken when it was agreed that OEEC
would present regular reports to the Assembly.

When the Schuman Plan treaty was signed in April, a
protocol relating to relationships between the Council of
Europe and the Coal and Steel Community was appended
which took fully into account the recommendations of
the Assembly regarding reports and common member-
ship in the Consultative Assembly and the Common
Assembly of the Community.

T THE NINTH SESSION of the Committee of Ministers

in August 1951 agreement was reached, as noted
above, to allow partial agreements which would permit
certain decisions to apply only to those members accept-
ing them.

Although substantial progress was made during 1951
toward improving relations between the ministers and
the Assembly and certain troublesome questions were
laid aside, at least temporarily, the problems regarding

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

the role of the Council and particularly the Assembly,
although narrowed in scope, still require serious attention.

At the session in November 1951 the Assembly dis-
cussed plans for specialized authorities in transport and
agriculture, but it has already become clear that the
same problem which arose regarding European federation
is arising again with respect to specialized authorities
— the problems were paramount in the mind of Paul-
Henri Spaak when, in discussing the role of the Assembly
at the end of the first half of its 1951 session, he stated:

“To sum up: the constitutional approach has been
abandoned; the functional (or specialized authorities)
approach offers only limited possibilities; and the con-
sultative method is not working satisfactorily... All this,
I think, makes it necessary for those who believe in the
paramount necessity of the Council of Europe to give
thought to its future and to try and work out once and
for all the road it ought to take.’

HE COUNCIL OF EUROPE is a purely European

organization in which the United States does not
participate. However, because the United States con-
siders that the Council has an important role to play in
furthering European unification, it has followed the
activities of the Council with great interest. Since the
inception of the European Recovery Program, the United
States has emphasized the need for a closer integration
of the free nations of Europe and has encouraged them
to take steps toward this goal. The United States warmly
welcomed the establishment of the Council as a further
step in this direction.

On May 11, 1949, soon after the statute of the Council
of Europe was signed, Secretary Acheson stated:

“This act on the part of those nations is a welcome
step forward toward the political integration of the free
nations of Europe. The people of those nations are to
be praised for their realization that a free Europe, to
remain free and attain a higher degree of well-being,
must be a united Europe."

Although the United States has no official relationship
with the Council, members of Congress have met with
representatives of the Assembly to discuss problems of
concern to both the United States and the European
countries. At its second session in the summer of 1950
the Assembly of the Council adopted a resolution ex-
pressing its wish that close cooperation between the
countries of Europe and North America continue and
requesting that close liaison be established between the
European organizations and the nations of North America.

In March 1951 the Committee of Ministers invited the
Assembly to suggest ways in which the liaison might
be established. Accordingly at its third session in May
1951 the Consultative Assembly invited a delegation
from the Gongress of the United States to meet with a
delegation from the Assembly for a public discussion of
problems of mutual interest.

This invitation was accepted by the Congress, and, in)
November 1951, seven members of the Senate and seven

MAY 1952

--- Page 18 ---
members of the House of Representatives met with 18
delegates selected proportionately from among the
various parliamentary delegations to the Assembly for
an exchange of views on such problems as the develop-
ment of European unity and the social and economic
aspects of the current rearmament effort.

INCE THE AIM of the Council of Europe is to achieve

greater European unity, which is often a very in-
tangible thing not measurable merely by the various
activities or institutional forms undertaken, it is difficult
to assess the importance of the council in terms of its
concrete accomplishments. The Council had no assigned
task other than that of achieving greater unity, since
defense matters are excluded and action on ‘economic
matters is primarily the responsibility of other organiza-
tions such as OEEC. The changes in the statute, even
though not radical in form, reflect progress toward the
goal of unity, as do the agreement on specialized authori--
ties and the growing habit of cooperation and con-
sultation.

One of the main functions of the Council is to provide
a forum for the discussion of major European problems.
How much a debate affects a given course of events is
difficult, if not impossible, to determine. Certainly the
Assembly has focused the spotlight of public attention
on some of the crucial issues of our times, ranging from
inflation to the threat of aggression, and by this means
has stimulated action on many practical problems.

For example, although the Council of Europe has no
power to act in the field of defense, the spirited debate
on this issue in August 1950, according to the statements
of French Foreign Minister Schuman, had considerable
effect on the future course of events. In outlining the
Pleven Plan for a European army to the Consultative
Assembly at Strasbourg in November 1950, he stated:

“But there is no need to put these questions to you
whose very presence here is a challenge to orthodoxy;
to you who by the vote you took here have testified to
your support of the basic idea of our plan, nay more,
who are its originator. This plan is essentially the one
which you recommended."

HE VIGOROUS DEBATES in the first session of the

Assembly brought wider public attention to the
problem of European economic integration and focused
interest on the activities of OEEC. Strong support was
given to the Schuman Plan for a coal and steel com-
munity which was debated in the Assembly both before
and after the signature of the treaty.

On a number of other questions more definite action
has been taken within the framework of the Council of
Europe. Among these are the questions of human rights,
refugees and surplus population, social security, patents,
standardization of passports and abolition of visas, and
a wide range of cultural problems ,

A convention on human rights which would reflect
those concepts basic to the democratic way of life was
proposed at the first session of the Council of Europe in

MAY 1952

15

1949 and signed at Rome on Nov. 4, 1950. At its ninth
session in August 1951 the Committee of Ministers agreed
upon a protocol to the convention embodying rights of
free elections, education, and property which the As-
sembly had been especially anxious to have included in
the convention itself.

After recommendations from the Assembly on the prob-
lem of refugees and the decision of the ministers that
the problem of refugees and overpopulation was one of
extreme urgency whose existence impeded the aims of
the Council of Europe, a committee of high-level experts
of member governments was convened to examine the
problem and determine what action might be taken.
Experts from IRO, ILO, OEEC and the UN High Com-
missioner for Refugees have attended its Meetings, and
the United States, at the request of the Council, sent an
observer to the second meeting of this group, held in
September 1951.

N THE SOCIAL FIELD the Council of Europe has

agreed on the principle of framing a European code of
social security in conjunction with ILO. The experts are
now working out the general principles to be incorporated
in the convention. They are also working on additional
ratifications for ILO conventions, extension of the poor-
law convention, and extension of social-security agree-
ments concluded by the Brussels pact powers.

In the economic field, the Assembly has been studying
the formation of specialized authorities concerned with
transport and agriculture. Since these matters have
been studied and debated in the Council of Europe, the
interest of other western European organizations in this
field has increased. Other complex questions, such as the
problem of full employment and cartels, have occupied
the attention of working groups in the Council.

A working party on patents has already brought to a
successful conclusion its first task, that of unifying the
procedures and formalities regarding the application for
and the granting of patents among members of the
Council. The group is now studying the creation of a
European patents office and its integration with the Inter-
national Patents Institute at The Hague.

The great expectations of the most ardent supporters
of the Council of Europe who hoped that a European
federation would quickly be created have clearly not
been fulfilled. The Council has nevertheless played a use-
ful role, in fact a unique role. Although it has taken
only limited action on the most urgent problems of this
period, it has demanstrated, through the Consultative
Assembly, the power to arouse public opinion and sti-
mulate activity on-a number of pressing issues.

Through its efforts toward unified action on specific
social, cultural and economic problems, the Council is
assisting in the effort to remove many real but unspec-
tacular obstacles to European unity. Thus through public
debate on broad issues and positive action on problems
of narrower scope, the Council of Europe is providing
a useful contribution to the growing sense of European
unity. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
General Eisenhower and Dr. Adenauer exchange greet-
ings at the chancellor's official residence in Bonn.(HICOG)

Pause to rest during ceremony with General Handy
(right) and Col. A.C. Strickland, CO Rhine-Main. (USAF)

Marching nine abreast, US troops pass in review. (Army)

Massed color battalion marches past reviewing stand.

General Eisenhower's
Farewell to Germany

“It is highly important that you do look good,
and that you show the world you are intelligent,
well-trained fighting men. You are not only sol-
diers. You are representatives of freedom. You
stand fora way of life that is decent, just and fair.
I can't imagine any more important job than the
one you are performing here.”

With a “goodbye and good luck," General of
the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower thus bid fare-
well to the American Armed Forces in Germany
atacolorfulreview atFrankfurt's VictoryStadium
April 30. Four thousand smartly uniformed men,
representing Army, Air Corps and Navy defense
forces, paraded before the SHAPE commander-
in-chief who is relinquishing his command of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces
June 1.

Two days later, General Eisenhower visited
Bonn for a farewell visit with Chancellor Kon-
rad Adenauer and other federal officials. Speak-
ing to newsmen after luncheon with the chancel-
lor, he said, ‘“We found ourselves in warm agree-
ment on one point—that the young people of
Europe deserve a better break than our gener-
ation had.”

MAY 1952

--- Page 20 ---
oe
In reviewing stand (left to right): Maj. Gen. Harlan N.
Hartness, commander of troops for review and command-
ing general, 4th Infantry Division; General Eisenhower;
General Thomas T. Handy, EUCOM comamnder-in-chief;
Lt, Gen. Manton S. Eddy, commanding general, 7th Army;
Maj. Gen. Kenneth F, Cramer, commanding general, 43rd
Infantry Division; Rear Admiral Carl F., Holden, com-
mander, US Naval Forces in Germany; Maj. Gen. Dean
D. Strother, commanding general, 12th Air Force; Maj.
Gen, Withers A. Burress, commanding general, VII Corps;
Maj. Gen. John E. Dahlquist, commanding general,
V Corps; Maj. Gen. Daniel B. Strickler, commanding
general, 28th Infantry Division; Maj. Gen. Thomas S.
Timberman, commanding general, 1st Infantry Division.
Not shown in front row: Maj. Gen. George W. Read, Jr.,
commanding general, 2nd Armored Division, and Brig.
Gen. Basil H. Perry, commanding general, Frankfurt
Military Post. (Army)

At Rhine-Main lunch (left to right) Colonel Strickland,
Mrs. McCloy, General Eisenhower and Mrs. Strickland.
(USAF)

Boarding plane, NATO chief salutes cheering crowd. (USAF)
lonors playing of the National Anthem. At leit are US
ligh Commissioner McCloy and Mrs. Eisenhower, (USAF)

Cover Photograph

Interrupting his visit with the Federal
chancellor, General Eisenhower stepped
out on the terrace of the Palais Schaum-
burg to talk with news correspondents
and reporters as photographers took scores
of pictures and radio microphones recorded
his words. The cover photograph is by
Norbert Gassner of the Public Relations
Branch, Information Division, HICOG, as
is the upper left, Other photographs on
these pages were furnished by the US

Army and US Air Forces,
poy

MAY 1952

--- Page 21 ---
HICOG Field Offices Complete Activities in June

HE US RESIDENT officers— “grass-roots ambas-

sadors" of the Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany at the community and county levels — will
complete their activities on June 5, Such of their activities
as is essential to friendly relations between the US Armed
Forces and the German people will be assumed by military
liaison officers supervised by a newly-formed civil affairs
organization of the European Command.

The US state commissioners, who headed the ‘HICOG
organizations operating in the four states of the US Zone,
will complete their operations on June 30, The present
state commissioners are: Dr. Oron J. Hale for Bavaria,
Rear Admiral Charles R. Jeffs (USN ret) for Bremen, Dr.
James R. Newman for Hesse and Maj. Gen. Charles P.
Gross for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

In announcing the closing of the 70 remaining US
Resident Offices on June 5 and of the four offices of the
US state commissioners on June 30, the HICOG statement

“Since their mission in Germany is completed, no suc-
cessors to the state commissioners or resident officers will
be appointed. Until the entering into effect of the new
relationship to be established between the Federal Re-
public and the Allied Powers by means of agreements
now under negotiation, the title and residual duties of the
state commissioners will be vested in the American con-
suls general.”

EUCOM Headquarters in Heidelberg announced simul-
taneously on May 13 that effective June 5, ‘military post
commanders will assume responsibility for direct relations
with local German officials and agencies and German
civilians on matters of mutual interest.” The announce-
ment continued:

“A civil affairs section will be organized in each of the
cities where military posts and most of the subpost head-
quarters are located. These sections will establish and
maintain offices, accessible to the Germans, in order to

Dr. Newman.

Admiral Jeffs.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

provide focal points of contact which will facilitate re-
lations between German officials and civilians and United
States military personnel. The offices will be staffed with
personnel competent to render assistance and advice to
either the Germans or United States military personnel,”

ONCERNING PLANS for establishment and main-

tenance of EUCOM civil affairs on the state level. the
EUCOM announcement said: “United States military-Ger-
man relations offices at the state capitals of Bavaria,
Wuerttemberg-Baden and Hesse are in the process of com-
pletion. These offices will become operative on or about
July 1 at which time EUCOM will then negotiate directly
with German officials at both the local and state levels
concerning military requirements and matters of mutual
interest.”

The US Resident Offices had been established in the fall
of 1949, when HICOG assumed certain continuing func-
tions of the Office of Military Government in Germany
(US), to replace the Liaison and Security Offices in the
cities and counties of the US area of responsibility. Where-
as it had been the responsibility of the MGOs to direct,
check and supervise, the ROs were to advice and encour-
age democratic processes among the Germans and promote
German-American relations. There had been approxi-

neo apdoaannR AES ~

mately 165 resident offices, some covering several counties
and hundreds of communities, but during the recent”

phasing-out process, the number had been reduced to 70,

HE US STATE commissioners (known locally as Land

commissioners from the German word "'Land’ meaning
state and not the American word “land” for ground) took ~
over their duties at the same time in 1949 from the di-
rectors of the offices of the Military Government in the
various states. The four OMG directors continued during
the transition period and only in Bavaria has there been 7
changes in office.

tsi

sti

General Gross. Dr. Hale.

MAY 1952 —

--- Page 22 ---
Dr. Newman has served continuously since the begin-
ning of the occupation. Leading his MG Detachment into
Wiesbaden on July 16, 1945, as an army colonel, he di-
rected the amalgamation in October of the same year of
several small governmental units into the state of Greater
Hesse, later simplified to Hesse, and was appointed its
OMG director. A resident of Floral Park, N.Y., he was a
public-school official before being commissioned in the
US Army during World War II.

Admiral Jeffs also has been in Germany since the early
days of the occupation but his first year and half were
with the US Daval Forces. He was named deputy director
of OMG Bremen March 6, 1947 and promoted to director
Nov. 29, 1948, He has had 37 years of service in the US
Navy, including the postwar posts as commander of the
US Naval Advance Base, Weser River, and deputy com-
mander, US Naval Forces in Germany.

General Gross came to Germany in March 1948 to be-
come deputy chief of the Transportation Group, Bipartite
Control Office, which was an integrated American-British
organization to supervise the mergered economical and
financial opreations in the two zones. He was appointed
director of OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden in January 1949. A

graduate of West Point in 1914, he had served through two
World Wars and risen to the position of chief of trans-
portation, Army Service Forces, before his retirement in
1945. He was chairman of the New York Board of Trans-
portation before coming to Germany.

Dr. Hale, on leave of absence from the faculty of the
University of Virginia, is the fourth state commissioner
for Bavaria. Murray D. Van Wagoner, former governor of
Michigan, was director at the advent of HICOG operations.
On retirement Oct. 22, 1949, he was succeeded by his de-
puty Clarence M. Bolds, who had served with Military
Government in Bavaria since the beginning of the occu-
pation. Dr. George N. Shuster, on leave as president of
Hunter College, New York City, became director Sept. 13,
1950. On his return to his college post Dec. 1, 1951, he was
succeeded by his deputy, Dr. Hale.

The HICOG Element in Berlin operates under special
arrangements applicable to the former capital city. At the
present time, Maj. Gen, Lemuel Mathewson is US com-
mander and representative of the US High Commissioner.
Cecil B. Lyon, a career official of the US Foreign Service,
is director of the Berlin Element, HICOG.

Personnel Notes

Thayer Replaces Woods in Munich

Sam E. Woods, US consul general at Munich since
June, 1947, retired at the end of May after more than
20 years in the US Foreign Service, and Charles W. Thayer,
foreign service career officer stationed in Bonn, was
named to succeed him. Mr, Thayer, who has been political
liaison officer to the German federal government since
November 1949, moves to Munich in June to take over
his new duties.

Born in Starville, Tex., Mr. Woods was in educational
work for the most part prior to his appointment in the
US Foreign Service in 1929. He was first assigned to
Prague in the commercial attache’s office. He became
the commercial attache at Prague in 1934 and was trans-
ferred to Berlin in 1937 as commercial attache. He was
in Berlin when Germany declared war on the United
States. In 1942 he was named consul general at Zurich and
Vaduz. He holds the personal rank of minister.

Mr. Thayer is well known in Bonn diplomatic circles.
In addition to being US liaison officer to the Federal
Government,'he has held the post of chief of the Reports
Division, Office of Political Affairs for the past year.

Born in Villanova, Pa., he attended the US Military
Academy at West Point and was graduated with the
class of 1933. He entered the US Foreign Service the
following year and was assigned to the embassies at
Moscow and Berlin and to the consulate in Hamburg.

During the war, he served at Moscow and at Kabul in
Afghanistan. He was assigned to the European Advisory

MAY 1952

19

Mr. Woods.

Mr. Thayer.

Commission in London in 1943 and the following year
he re-entered the army, becoming a parachutist and rising
to the rank of lieutenant colonel. Subsequently, he was
named chief of the Military Mission to Yugoslavia and
joined Marshal Tito and his partisans who were engaged
at that time in guerilla warfare. He remained in Yugoslavia
until 1945 when he went to Austria as chief of the Office
of Strategic Services for Austria and adviser on Russian
affairs to General Mark Clark, who at that time was
US military governor in Austria.

The following year he was appointed to a five-man
commission for the reunification of Korea. Thereafter, he
attended the National War College and from 1947 until
1949 he was the head of the Voice of America.

Mr. Thayer is the author of the popular book, “Bears
in the Caviar," which is an account of his varied and
colorful experiences.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
American Ideas Invigorating

EW MARKETING trends in Germany, particularly

through the Consumers’ Cooperatives, are being
closely studied these days by a 31-year-old woman
economist who returned recently from the United States
with what she terms a “wealth of ideas’ for adaptation
in her homeland.

Miss Lilli Rieger of Munich, the 6,000th exchangee to
go to the United States under the HICOG-sponsored
program designed to acquaint Germans with the Ameri-
can way of doing things, visited 33 states and studied
the way American women's organizations help women
to become effective in the economic life of their country.
Her six-months stay was sponsored by the Women's
Bureau of the US Department of Labor in conjunction
with 10 national and religious women’s organizations and
their local branches.

Miss Rieger, a scientific assistant with the Bavarian
Consumers’ Cooperatives, chiefly in a public relations
capacity, says her principal aim now is to help build up
women’s work within this type of organization. “It is
not that German women are not interested in what is
going on,” she says, ‘but to take an active part in civic
affairs and to serve a community properly, women must
be well informed. They should also be trained in public
speaking so they can express their ideas before a group.
Along this same line is the increased need for training
in progressive household methods as it is directed by
home economists in the United States.”

IKE THE AMERICAN housewife, German women are
concerned about the high cost of living, Miss Rieger
relates, “but unlike the Americans, they don’t know
what to do about it." With her experience in the United
States, she is planning lectures, articles and meetings
with women’s work groups in an intensive program to
sell them new methods in Germany.

Miss Rieger expresses surprise at the great number
of American women's organizations in which members
“keep their eyes open” for the benefit of other women,
and the ease with which they work together without
apparent financial difficulty. she ob-
serves. “the question is always: who is going to pay?"
The lag in similar endeavors in postwar Germany is
partly due to the need for solving more pressing prob-
lems first, and in a general reluctance to break with
traditional ways of doing things.

“In Germany,”

“Now I have learned at first hand what Americans
mean when they say: ‘Don't let the government do
everything’, she says. “Whereas America was practi-

cally built through private initiative, German govern-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

ments for centuries have sponsored and supported art,
science and business; the government has always given
the orders. This deep-rooted tradition will give way
gradually if we can get more and more German citizens
to display a personal interest in public life.’ Miss Rieger
is of the opinion that, through women's increased par-
ticipation in the public and economic life of Germany,
old rivalries and power complexes of trade guilds and
civil authorities can be largely eliminated. Energy and
patience are the bywords for such an effort, she believes.

URING MISS Rieger's tour of the United States, she

observed national women’s organizations in Wash-
ington, D.C., work of women’s church groups in Lynch-
Va. Atlanta and Clarksville, Ga.;
education and housing programs of the Young Women’s
Christian Association in Kansas City, Mo., and Omaha,
Neb.; educational and publicity programs of the Ameri-
can Association of University Women in Rapid City and
Brookings, S.D., and Grand Forks, N.D.; the Business
and Professional Women's Clubs in San Diego and Los
Angeles, Calif., and Everett, Wash.; political participation
of women in the League of Women Voters in Con-
necticut, Massachusetts and Maine; the National Council

burg, vocational

of Women, United Nations, and welfare agencies in New
York City and Philadelphia, Pa.

The entire trip, she says, was marked by the utmost
cordiality and warm hospitality on the part of her Ameri-
can hosts, and this, too, looms large in her description

of the “amazingly wonderful United States.” +END

Miss Rieger interviews customer at self-service store in
Munich which belongs to Bavarian Consumers’ Coopera-

tive. Sign reads: “Baked goods and candies." _(HICOC photo),

MAY 1952

--- Page 24 ---
In and Around Germany

Froebel Commemoration in June

The 100th anniversary of the death of Friedrich Froebel,
honored as the father of the kindergarten movement, will
be commemorated at a four-day conference in Paul Church
in Frankfurt June 18-21. Between 400 and 500 visitors, in-
cluding representatives of kindergarten organizations in
12 European countries, are expected.

Friedrich Froebel was born April 21, 1782, in Oberweiss-
bach and died July 21, 1852, in Marienthal. After his
studies had been interrupted by the death of his father,
he took up teaching, including tutoring in Frankfurt
1805-1808. Later he met, and worked with, Johann Hein-
rich Pestalozzi, noted educator of the day, and in 1831
founded the first kindergarten in Blankenburg, Thuringia.
His ideas for the kindergarten movement were not gener-
ally recognized until the 1880's.

The conference in Frankfurt is supported by the City of
Frankfurt, the Federal Government and the Pestalozzi-
Froebel Association of Frankfurt. Dr. Eduard Spranger of
the University of Tuebingen will be the principal speaker
at the opening session. Work groups will discuss parent-

school relationships, good kindergarten education, public
interest concerning kindergartens in public schools and
importance of kindergartens in villages and rural schools.
The Frankfurt US Information Center will present il-
lustrative films and slides.

The Association for Childhood Education International,
Washington D.C., recently prepared and sent the Pesta-
lozzi-Froebel Associations 20 sets of an exhibit for show-
ing in western Germany and western Berlin. This exhibit
will be displayed at the Frankfurt conference along with
other US contributions. In appreciation, the Pestalozzi-
Froebel Association of Hamburg sent the American as-
sociation an exhibit depicting the philosophy and works
of Froebel.

Productivity Council Organized

A German Productivity Council, including representa-
tives of the Federal Ministeries for Economics, Marshall
Plan, Labor and Finance, as well as of management and
labor, was organized recently at the Federal Chancellery
in Bonn, Representatives of the Mutual Security Agency,
which took a leading part in formation of the council, sits
with it in an advisory capacity.

The council meets under the chairmanship of the federal
economics minister. It decides measures to increase pro-
ductivity in German industry, and eventually in other

Representatives of organized clubs and groups of American women in Germany, Austria and Trieste
convened at Chiemsee, Bavaria, April 28-30 to discuss activities of American women in Europe. Among
topics on the agenda were discussions of general club activities for both Americans and Germans, welfare
programs and “Role of the American Women in Europe.” Speakers at the opening session included (left
photo) Miss Dorothy Fosdick (seated) of the Policy Planning Staff, US Department of State, Washington:
Mrs, Mildred Allport (left) senior cultural adviser for women’s affairs, HICOG, Frankfurt, and Miss Mar-
garet Blewett (right), assistant cultural officer, American Consulate General, Stuttgart. Some of speakers

and delegates (right photo) pose between conference sessions.

MAY 1952

(US Army photos)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
areas such as agriculture. Receiving immediate atten-
tion are:

Use of all measures, in particular those improving the
efficiency of operations in the factories and the exchange
of experience among them which will contribute to in-
creased productivity and output.

Choice of firms to be used as example and models in
the implementation of measures to increase productivity.

Professional education, schooling and training of per-
sonnel for higher positions.

Consideration of wage questions (incentive, bonus wages,
etc.) in connection with the increase in productivity.

Credit and tax measures to increase productivity.

Winning of public opinion to the idea of increased pro-
ductivity,

Also created was a working committee in the Ministry
of Economics which will include reprensentatives of all
the groups participating in the Productivity Council, as
well as the director of the implementing office of the coun-
cil and an official of the German Productivity Center.
Members of this working party may participate in meet-
ings of the council ex officio.

Last DP Visa Issued

The US Displaced Persons Commission concluded its
German ethnic program April 29 when the last of the 54,744
visas authorized under the amended DP Act were issued
to German refugees. Although the act was not to expire
until June 30, the commission has completed the program
more than two months ahead of schedule.

Robert J, Corkery, European coordinator for the USDPC,
said at the conclusion of the program, “If quota numbers
were available, an additional 20,000 German ethnics could
be issued visas prior to the June 30 expiration date of
*the act."

In a ceremony preceding the Palm Sunday service, a new
chapel was dedicated at the Andrews Barracks compound
in Berlin with the presentation of the key to the post com-
mander, Taking part were (left to right): Col. William P.
Maxwell, deputy chief chaplain of the European Command;
Brig. Gen. Maurice W. Daniel, commanding general Berlin
Military Post; Lt. Col. Nelson G. Greene, chief of BMP
Engineer Branch, and Capt. Eric W. Swadell, deputy post
chaplain. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German ethnics who were eligible for US immigration
under the amended DP Act were persons born in eastern
European countries or that part of Germany east of the
Oder-Neisse line now under Communist domination.
Approximately 8,000,000 refugees are still in the western
zones of Germany.

These refugees, the majority of whom were born in
eastern European countries, are not eligible to emigrate
to the United States under the normal German quota but
must emigrate under the quota of the country of their
origin. With the recently completed DP program, 50 per-
cent of the immigration quotas from most of these countries
were taken up for many years to come.

Penologists Visit United States

Alfons T, Wahl of Stuttgart-Degerloch, chief of the penal
affairs section of the Federal Republic's Ministry of Justice,
and Dr. Wolfgang Preiser, professor of penal and inter-
national law at the University of Frankfurt, are visiting the
United States under the HICOG Exchanges Program.

Mr. Wahl is interested in the probation and parole
system, particularly as it applies to youthful delinquents,
During his exchange visit to America he is observing the
operation of prisons, probation and parole systems at the
national level, His tour, under the auspices of HICOG's
Office of General Counsel, is sponsored by the US Federal
Courts and the US Department of Justice.

A former upper state court and district court judge, Pro-
fessor Preiser has been invited to lecture at the George- «
town University law school, Washington D.C., and to hold
courses and seminars on jurisprudence, criminal and com-
parative law during the spring term.

Berlin Artists Lauded

Contemporary West Berlin art compares ‘very favor-
ably” with the paintings currently being produced in other
parts of western Europe, according to Gordon Washburn,
director of the Department of Fine Arts, Carnegie Institute,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

Mr. Washburn paid a four-day visit to Berlin to obtain
loan of a number of new works by West Berlin artists.
Approximately 20 Berlin paintings will be included in an
international exhibition to be held in Pittsburgh at the end
of this year under the auspices of the Carnegie Institute.

Mr. Washburn noted that Berlin paintings ‘indicate an
increasingly high level of artistic accomplishment.”
Evidence of the quality of West Berlin art works, Mr.
Washburn said, is being provided daily by a separate
exhibit of 80 Berlin paintings currently touring the United
States. The exhibit has received excellent critical notices
in all cities in which it has appeared to date, he said.

Alien Enlistees Return to EUCOM

Ten European nationals — six-month “veterans” of mili-
tary service in the United States — have returned to Ger-
many for assignment to US Army units in the European
Command.

Enlisted last summer in the United States under the
provisions of the alien enlistment law, the 10 soldiers have
received 16 weeks of basic infantry training at Fort Dix, —
N.J., followed by promotion to the second enlisted grade. ~

The 10 were among the first 45 alien enlistees to leave
EUCOM last Sept. 27. One of them, Pvt. John E. Poitik, 23,
was among the first five foreign nationals accepted for

pial aati

encarta Se

--- Page 26 ---
enlistment in the American Army.* Each man in the group
now returned to Europe for duty speaks at least three
languages, including English.

While at Fort Dix, the men took advantage of weekend
passes to view life in America and all had five-day fur-
loughs during the winter holiday season. The alien
troopers also received a seven-day leave prior to depart-
ing for their assignment in Germany. The men were unan-
imous in Stating that the tour of duty in the United
States “was wonderful and we are looking forward to go-
ing back as citizens at the end of our five-year enlistment.”

One of the provisions of the alien enlistment law per-
mitting the recruitment of 2,500 foreign nationals into the
US Army before June 1955, makes the alien soldiers
eligible for US citizenship at the end of the five-year tour
of duty. A EUCOM spokesman stated that more than 5,000
applications have been submitted by foreign nationals for
enlistment in the US Army. Approximately 1,000 of this
number are still pending and more applications are being
received daily.

The applications are submitted at all military posts in
the American zone of Germany. Qualified men from any
nation, other than those holding membership in the NATO
or receiving Marshall Plan aid, are eligible for enlistment
in the US Army under the provisions of the alien enlist-
ment law,

German Meat Specialties Approved

First shipments of western German meat products to the
United States since the war are due to begin soon as the
result of an amendment to US Department of Agriculture
regulations which adds the Federal Republic to the list of
countries which are permitted to ship meats to the United
States.

Effective March 28, the Department of Agriculture
accepted the Federal Republic's inspection and marking
standards for purposes of export to the United States. This
acceptance was given after the German Government made
certain modifications in its practices and regulations to
meet American standards.

Western Germany returns to the American market at a
time when it is laboring under loss of a substantial part of
its market in the United Kingdom as the result of import
restrictions there. Western Germany also is in a position
to replace Poland as the source of much of the canned
hams exported to the United States. Poland was one of the
principal suppliers of such meat products until it recently
was removed from the preferential duty list.

Some of the most important German suppliers of meat
specialties are firms which once operated in the Soviet
Zone, but now have reestablished their businesses in
western Berlin and the Federal Republic.

Immunization Program in Hesse

Between 20,000 and 25,000 Hessian children are being
inoculated against diphtheria, whooping cough and teta-
nus as part of a large-scale demonstration of a multiple
antigen immunization program under the joint auspices
of the State Health Department of Hesse and the Public
Health Advisory Staff of HICOG.

A multiple antigen is a combination of the immunizing
substances of several organisms. With either a single
injection or not more than three injections at monthly
or other appropriate intervals, this immunization to

* See “Stateless Europeans Enlist’ in Information Bulletin, Sep-
lember 1951, page 88.

MAY 1952

23

US Consulate General and military officials in Stuttgart
inspected the prize-winning exhibits. of the annual GYA
handicrafts contest of the Stuttgart Military Post. In the
group were (leit to right): Mrs. R. Sears, wife of the SMP
deputy commander; Brig. Gen. E. McGinley, commanding
general of the Stuttgart Military Post; Harvey M. Coverly,
deputy US state commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden;
Mrs. Mallon; Patrick Mallon, American consul general for
Stuttgart, and Mrs. Coverly. (GYA photo Grossmann)

several diseases can be accomplished. The material used
in the Hessian program was contributed by HICOG and
the Behringwerke, a pharmaceutical plant in Marburg.

The program for the immunization of the 20,000-25,000
children in Hesse during April and May was planned as
a result of the visits to Germany as a HICOG consultant
in 1950 and 1951 by Dr. V. K. Volk,* health: commissioner
of Saginaw County, Mich. Dr. Volk has been a pioneer
in the use of multiple antigen immunizing substances in
the United States. Although this type of antigen has been
used for more than a decade in the United States, it is
new to Germany.

The Behringwerke’s participation in the project was
the first example brought to the attention of HICOG
public health advisers in that the German pharmaceutical
industry had accepted a community responsibility in
addition to its commercial interests, t

Women Aid Munich Needy

American women's groups in Munich have raised
nearly $10,000 in the past year to contribute to German
welfare organizations. This was raised principally from
cake sales, raffles, benefit teas, donations and similar
events.

The sums raised by the various groups during the year
were announced as: Munich Women's Club Welfare
Committee, $5,643.94; Thrift Shop, $1,799.85; Quarter-
master Women’s Club, $646; Catholic Women's Club,
$390; Dachau Women's Club, $327; German-American’
Women's Club, $989.50.

This report was presented at a meeting May 8 of the
Munich Women's Club, at which Mrs. Hilda Heilmann,
director of the Foreign Policy Association of Germany
spoke on “International Good Neighbors.’ Calling
attention to the American preoccupation with human

* Dr. Volk is co-author of the article ‘Need for Immunization” in
the Information Bulletin, November 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
relations stemming from pioneer days as the nucleus of
the American good-neighbor conception, she said:

“T am aware that many Americans who in these recent
years have been visiting us, missed good neighborhood
among the Germans. I also know that many Germans
appreciate the high values of American community life.
They do their best to mold the American way of life in
an appropriate German form, not because this style is
of American origin, but because it really coincides with
the point from which we in Germany must rebuild our
society."

Record March-of-Dime Fund

Personnel of the Army, Navy and Air Force in the
European Command contributed $536,700 to the 1952
March of Dimes, according to a final tabulation at
EUCOM Headquarters of campaign receipts. This was
approximately $162,000 more than was donated the
previous year by EUCOM military and civilian personnel
in the fight against polio.

Of the total amount, the Army element of EUCOM
contributed $463,455, nearly double its 1951 sum. Among
the military posts, Nuremberg raised the largest amount,
$91,420, while on the basis of assigned strength, Bremer-
haven led in per capita contributions and on an estimated
present-for-duty strength basis, Berlin led in per capita
contributions,

Church Congress Convention

The third annual convention of the German Evangelical
Church Congress is scheduled to be held in Stuttgart
Aug. 27 to 31. Stuttgart, which had been originally
selected for the 1951 convention, agreed to postpone its
host role a year to permit the Church Congress to meet
in Berlin last year.*

The German Evangelical Church Congress, known in
German as Kirchentag, is one of the outstanding lay
movements in modern Christendom. A permanent in-
stitution within the Evangelical Church of Germany, it
aims to encourage Christian layment to participate in
public life.

Leader of the movement is Dr. Reinhold von Thadden-
Trieglass, a jurist who in pre-Hitler days was a leader
in the German Student Christian Movement. He conceived
the idea of the Church Congress during his confinement
in a Russian prison camp. Upon his return to Germany
he became representative to the World Council of
Churches in Geneva and visited more than 100,000 pris-
oners.of war in the camps of the Western Allies.

The Church Congress was founded in 1949 in Hanover.
The first convention was held in Essen in August 1950,
drawing an attendance of 200,000. The 1951 convention
was in Berlin in July having an attendance of 400,000 from
both East and West Germany, as well as visitors from
other countries,

The Stuttgart convention is expected to have 200,000
delegates and visitors, including 10,000 East Germans, for
whom the Soviet Zone officials have promised interzonal
passes, Others are expected from Switzerland, England,
Scandinavia, Holland, France and the United States.
Several hundred Americans, who will attend the Lutheran
World Assembly in Hanover July 25-Aug, 3, plan to be
present at the Stuttgart meeting.

* See ‘Evangelical Bridge’‘ by James C. Flint in the Information
Bulletin, September 1951.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

George F. Kennan, en route to his new post as US ambas-

sador in Moscow, stopped over in Berlin May 5 to visit

Cecil B. Lyon, director of Berlin Element, HICOG.
(HICOG-Berlin photo)

The theme of the Church Congress this year is ‘Make
Life Your Choice," being considered under five sub-
headings: (1) ‘In the Church," (2) ‘In the Family," (3)
“In the Nation,’’ (4) “In the Vocation" and (5) ‘In the
Rural Community.”

Additional Aid to West Berlin

An additional $49,980,000 of ECA and GARIOA counter-
part (Deutsche mark) funds has been earmarked to
strengthen the economy of western Berlin, These addi-
tional funds constitute interim aid to Berlin, pending the
arrival in Germany of an MSA technical assistance team
which will survey the progress, problems and future of
Berlin economic recovery and make recommendations for
handling future aid.

The present program includes $17,850,000 for long term
investment, $5,950,000 for working capital loans to Berlin
firms, $14,280,000 for financing production in Berlin of
orders placed by certain West German institutions, and
$11,900,000 for work relief.

The present program brings to the Deutsche mark equi-
valent of $423,599,302 the total of ECA and GARIOA
counterpart funds earmarked for western Berlin since the
middle of 1949, Of this sum $239,510,110 had actually been
expended by Feb. 29, 1952. Both ECA and GARIOA
counterpart arise from dollar appropriations by the United
States Congress for the Economic Cooperation Adminis-
tration.

MSA Miners’ Housing Program
Plans for a ninth and final project in the Mutual Sec-
urity Agency's Miners’ Housing Program, to cost between

$2,380,000 and $3,570,000, were announced by the MSA
Special Mission to Germany for Economic Cooperation.

The new project will bring to approximately 7,000 the

number of dwelling units erected under this program.
Contracts for construction of the project, site not yet
selected, will be awarded to a team of architects, con-
tractors and constructors judged to have done the best job
in erecting the eight housing projects already under way.
The competition will be judged by a group of West
European, British and American experts who will be

MAY 1952

--- Page 28 ---
invited by the Federal Housing Ministry to constitute a
jury. They will visit all eight of the current projects near
the end of this year to study the performance of the con-
struction teams,

The ninth project is planned as the largest and finest of
the whole program, incorporating the knowledge and
experience gained in previous miners’ housing programs.
The project will be erected on a cost-plus basis, which will
permit flexibility in the introduction of additional features
as construction proceeds. Construction is expected to
begin early in 1953,

The original allocation for this year in the ECA-MSA
Miners’ Housing Program was $23,800,000, all which came
from Marshall Plan counterpart (Deutsche mark) funds.
Of this, $18,802,000 were released for constructing dwel-
lings in the first eight projects. An additional $1,904,000
was released later by the MSA mission to aid communities
in procuring ground and for financing necessary utilities.

Allied Bank Law Repealed

Allied legislation for the deconcentration and reorgani-
zation of Germany's former big banks—the Deutsche
Bank, the Dresdner Bank* and the Commerz Bank — has
been repealed following the enactment of the Federal
German law on the regional scope of credit institutions
which will now be the legal basis for the reorganization of
these banks in such a manner as to prevent the excessive
concentrations of economic power.

The decision to repeal the Allied legislation is given
effect in Law No, A 24 of the Allied High Commission,
published in the Federal Legal Gazette (Bundesgesetzblatt)
No. 15 dated March 31.

The federal law does not, however, itself deal with the
question of proxy voting by banks, at the meetings of
joint stock companies with the banks. The Allied High
Commission had stressed that legislative measures were
necessary to obligate the banks to be bound by the in-
structions of the shareholders so that the individual wishes
of shareholders might be safeguarded and so that the
banks should not be able arbitrarily to interfere in the
affairs of stock companies.

* See “Deutsche and Dresdner Banks" in Information Bulletin,
No. 99, June 30, 1947.

In this connection, the federal chancellor has confirmed
to the High Commission that in a future reform of stock
law the Federal Government intends to introduce legis-
lation to obligate the banks to be bound by the instructions
of shareholders. The chancellor also drew attention to the
fact that the federal association of private bankers has
passed a resolution that the banks will in future only be
able to use shares other than their own for the purpose of
opposing a stock company’s policy when the shareholders
have given their express approval in each individual case.

Airports to Get New Equipment

Following successful tests at the Stuttgart-Echterdingen
airport, the first modern air navigation equipment pro-
duced in Germany since the end of the war will be
installed at six additional West German civil airports.
Scheduled to receive this modern, high-frequency navi-
gational equipment, in addition to Stuttgart, are civil
airports at Frankfurt, Munich, Nuremberg, Hamburg,
Hanover and Duesseldorf.

“This equipment will not replace any of the present
instrument landing or navigational aids now in use but
will supplement them,"" Thomas D. Johnson, chief of the
Civil Aviation Division, HICOG, said. ‘This is the con-
tinuation of the long-term program to equip German
civil airports with modern air navigation equipment.”

Known as VOR (Very High Frequency Omnirange),
this new air navigational equipment is being manufac-
tured in West Berlin for HICOG's Civil Aviation Division
by the firm C. Lorenz A.G., with funds provided by the
German Federal Government.

The present VOR equipment at the Stuttgart airport
will be transferred from its testing site to a new area
at the airfield. The installing of VOR equipment at
Nuremberg-Fuerth has been arranged to serve the present
airport and later the new airport planned for this area.
Because of the heavy air traffic at Frankfurt’s Rhine-Main
airport, it will be equipped with two VOR installations.

This new equipment not only will serve air routes
and commercial terminals through West Germany, but
will fit into the over-all European VOR air navigational
system, including systems presently in operation in
France, England and Italy.

Wives of American officials stationed in Berlin served as judges for the annual GYA handicraft contest

held at Tempelhof April 17.

MAY 1952

(US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
HAUVOUAAUUOUOGUNAVEOESOUENUONOEEOUAGUEGUNADEOUEGUEODEOUNOGEOUEGGUODUCHUENUCaveOduONuaQuaQuOaveaUeNUoUUuOveGguOueGUenconduenueanegvecvueaeeanesneettts

German Editorials
And Cartoons

This section is intended to inform the American readers of what Germans are
thinking, without interpretation. The selection has been made so as to cover
the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and to give
a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any event,
viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US authorities.

The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by the Press
Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

AVUUUAUAUOUAEANUEGEANAEUEAUARACUUUCUTAUAUACT CAVEMEN CREATE CATOUECUTA TAAL S

German National Anthem

President Heuss’ decision to re-
introduce the Deutschlandlied as Ger-
many's national anthem was generally
accepted by the German press, al-
though only with strong skepticism
by some.

“Despite defeat and despite its over-
shadowing by a Nazi song, the
Deutschlandlied has become an irre-
placable part of our national heritage,"
said Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf,
-May 6). ‘We saw that one and a half
years ago, when the attempt was made
to offer us a substitute anthem. Presi-
dent Heuss has conceded that now.
There may be objections against the
text by Hoffmann von Fallersleben.
Some say that time made it outdated,
that Germany no longer goes from the
Maas to the Memel and from the Etsch
to the Belt. Thus Chancellor Aden-

auer’s wish is understandable to have
only the third verse ‘Unity, justice and
freedom’ sung. However, the song re-

Sleeping Beauty 1952: I See a Hand-
some Prince Coming to Wake You Up.
Freie Presse (Hamburg), April 12.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

tains its significance as a symbolic ex-
pression of the desire to have all Ger-
mans finally re-united in one ‘Reich.’
From the Oder to the Rhine it is more
valid now than ever before.”

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt,
May 10) felt that the world should
forget that this anthem had once been
sung together with a Nazi song. “A
shrewd observer said that he and many
of his friends, whenever they heard
this anthem during the twelve years of
Nazism, always considered it a com-
forting symbol that the old, honorable,
free and spiritually rich Germany had
not been destroyed even under Hitler,
that it was still living underneath the
injustice, that one could hope...”

Die Zeit (Hamburg, May 8) doubted
that Chancellor Adenauer’s proposal to
sing the third verse would be followed.
“Presumably it will become general
use to sing the first (Deutschland tiber
alles) and third (Einigkeit und Recht
und Freiheit — Unity, justice and free-

German Opinion in Cartoons

‘pay
UE ue

(Adenauer, CDU, and Schumacher, SPD,

for four-power conference), — Ruhr

Nachrichten (Dortmund), April 26.

26

Playing the Same Tune Together-at Last

Of Course, I'll Marry You Too — But
Later. — Westfaelische Rundschau
(Dortmund), April 15.

dom) verses together, as it was done
at a recent refugee meeting in Bonn,
and on other occasions. Public opinion
in Germany and abroad will get used
to it. This solution is in accord with the
wishes of the popular majority.”

Frankfurter Rundschau (Frankfurt,
May 7) was skeptical. ‘The Deutsch-
Jandlied became the program song of
German expansionists and imperialists.
With due respect for the first German
president, it was a political mistake,
when Friedrich Ebert made this song
the national anthem of the German
republic in 1922. What could have
been excused in 1922 as a mistake is
much more serious today. Hitler and
his gang completed the discredit of the
Deutschlandlied.”

As Long as They Use Paper Bullets
Nothing Much Can Happen. — Schwae-
bische Landzeitung (Augsburg), April 16.

MAY 1952

--- Page 30 ---
Communist Propaganda Trick

Der Tag (Berlin, May 7) ridiculed the
latest reversal of the Communist pro-
paganda line: “Until now, May 8 (anni-
versary of the German surrender of
1945) had to be celebrated as the Day
of Liberation. This year it became the
Day of Defense. What a change! The
Soviet Zone government now makes
propaganda not for an all-German
national army, but for a national army
for the Soviet Zone. What the Com-
munist politicians really want is an
instrument to defend their own posi-
tions of power. They seem to be happy
that they can exploit the treaty be-
tween West Germany and the Allies as
an excuse for building up an even
larger military bodyguard for them-
selves."

East-West War of Nerves

With the date for the signing of the
Contractual Agreements and the Euro-
pean Defense Community Pact ap-
proaching, the German press antici-
pated a toughening of the cold war.

“Violence is part of the political
style of Communism," said Hamburger
Echo (Hamburg, May 13). “The question
remains, what the Soviet Union is try-
ing to achieve by such actions... The
realistic strategists in Moscow must be
aware of the fact that threats and
violence achieve the exact opposite of
what the communists say they are aim-
ing at, the peaceful reunification of
Germany."

Darmstaedter Echo (Darmstadt, May
13) wrote: “Walter Ulbricht, the master
spirit of the Soviet Zone dictatorship,
threatened ‘punishment by the people’
for members of the Federal Govern-
ment and parliament. The Soviets have
indicated that they are preparing new
acts of blackmail, perhaps even a new
blockade of West Berlin. Despite. all
intimidations, all parties of the Federal
Republic should support the ratification
of the treaties.”

“Nobody in the West can imagine
what it would mean for every Berliner
if there should be another near-
blockade such ‘as the Soviets now
threaten," Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stutt-
gart, May 14) commented. ‘Never-
theless, in many conversations with
Berliners from all social groups, we
found nobody who lets himself be in-
timidated by this pressure. In Berlin

MAY 1952

Don't Forget Us, Ike! — Braunschweiger
Zeitung (Brunswick), April 20.

there are no differences of opinion re-
garding the basic political attitude.
And we in the West, where life ap-
parently continues in normal ways?
We must realize more clearly than
ever before that the fate of Berlin is
our common fate, too.”

Telegraf (Berlin, May 14) told the
Communists plainly that “the Berliners,
whom Ulbricht advised that they would
feel the consequences on the day after
the Contractual Agreements with the
Western Allies are signed, cannot be
frightened. They listen to the Com-
munist threats cooly and calmly be-
cause they know that their right will
triumph in the end:

Summing it up, Hamburger Echo
(Hamburg, May 9) felt that “we can
expect the Soviet Union to present its
fait accompli matching the fait ac-
compli of the Western Powers. We can
be sure that the Soviet Union has made
detailed preparations forthe eventuality
of the German-Allied agreements being
signed. We must expect a war of
nerves as we have never had it before.”

Move to Reduce Incidents

In an open letter to American sol-
diers in connection with recent un-
pleasant incidents between soldiers
and local residents, the Wiesbadener
Kurier (Wiesbaden, May 17) said:

“We Wiesbadenerts are well prepared
to recognize and promote good be-
havior and youthful enterprising spirit.
We really would appreciate it if your
commander's wish for good relations
will be effective also when the lights
are burning and when there are only
a few persons on the streets... We
wish for an understanding. We know
that the majority of you need no such
encouragement. But you and we know
that a few lound and too self-conceited

27

people are apt to severely prejudice
the good reputation of many well-
behaving ones..."

In this connection, the American
commander in Wiesbaden was reported
as announcing a new program ‘to pro-
mote the so far excellent relationship
between the military personnel dis-
playing an unobjectionable attitude
and the ‘corresponding’ Wiesbaden
citizens." For its educational effect, he
directed all troop units would get
translations from German newspapers
with information commentary.

Labor-Management Fight

Early in May the German Federation
of Trade Unions announced that it
would not accept the labor-manage-
ment relations bill then under con-
sideration by the German parliament
and stated that it would use “union
weapons” to ascertain compliance with
its demands. The press immediately
split into two widely separated groups.

“The union battle cry for a ‘progres-
sive labor-management relations bill’
must be taken very seriously,” said
Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt,
May 13). “Christian Fette (labor leader)
has not yet told us by what methods
he intends to make the parliament,
government and the public accept his
wishes. He hinted that there might be
strikes, even though not a general
strike. Two interested groups may
profit from this: outside the Federal
Republic it will be the communist-
bolshevist enemies of West Germany:
within the Federal Republic, the trade
unions. The workers themselves will
not profit at all.”

Similarly Westdeutsches Tageblatt
(Dortmund, May 14) wrote: “We do not
deny the unions the right to defend the

Soviet Siren Song: “Come, Frau!" —
Rhein-Zeitung (Coblenz), April 19.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
workers, What we dislike are their
threats, which do not at all fit into the
framework of democracy, even though
they claim that they are fighting for
democracy. Real democracy is based
on compromises, negotiations and
mutual understanding.”

Muenchner Merkur (Munich, May 14)
saw the union fight as part of the
general opposition battle against Chan-
cellor Adenauer. ‘No doubt, the oppo-
sition is mobilizing all its forces for a

“ major attack on the chancellor. We
must wait and see whether the unions
will play a leading part in this political
fight."

The labor organ Welt der Arbeit
(Duesseldorf, May 15) rejected political
implications. “The German workers
who have taken up the battle will not
be misled by statements that this union
fight is illegal. Groups representing
other interests were not denied the
right to campaign and demonstrate for
their demands. Now the attempt is
being made to deny this right to work-
ers. It is up to the workers themselves
whether they want to achieve and
maintain equal rights. They must know
that efforts will be made to misdirect
the fight by means of false slogans.
But they will remember that it involves
not only their rights, but also the
existence of democracy in Germany.
Its result will not be doubtful if they
are guided by the union appeal: Be
prepared! Maintain discipline! Follow
the directions of your unions!"

Germany Chooses the Lesser Evil. —
Nachrichten (Aachen), May 1.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Conrad (Adenauer) in the Lions' Den.
Abendblatt (Hamburg), April 22.

Equalization of War Burdens

After years of debating and negoti-
ating, the German Bundestag passed
a law designed to adjust property los-
ses through the war and its immediate
consequences. Under this law, capital
levies will be imposed on persons who
suffered no or, only minor losses, to
the benefit of those who lost most or
all of their property.

“Without exaggeration we can say
that the Bundestag has fought its
greatest legislative battle," commented
Koelner Stadtanzeiger (Cologne, May
17). “The law will satisfy neither those
who expect to benefit under it, nor
those who will have to pay these mil-
lions. But undoubtedly it means a
great social progress within the limits
of the possible..."

In a similar vein, Frankfurter Neue
Presse (Frankfurt, May 17) felt that
“the law is the result of a compromise
by all who were willing to achieve
an understanding," while Kieler Nach-
richten (Kiel, May 17) argued: “We
have to acquiesce in the fact that a
satisfactory solution of this enormous,
complex problem cannot be achieved.
Notwithstanding political differences,
the Bundestag has done a lot of valu-
able and objective work. Thus it came
that the original draft could be sub-
stantially improved.”

Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel, May
17) commented: “Much as we regret
that the most important postwar social
legislation was enacted over the dis-
sent of the Social Democratic opposi-
tion, we are glad to see it passed,
after all. It was already due in the
fall of 1948..."

Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim,
May 17) appealed to the good will
of all involved, “of the beneficiaries,
who should not demand impossible
things, and of the property holders,

28

whose payments are a belated con-
tribution, which others made long ago..
Never will the equalization of war
burdens be able to return to the mil-
lions of refugees what the war took
from them,” the paper commented.

The opposition press was very out-
spoken in its criticism. “This equali-
zation of war burdens law is domi-
nated by the same un-social spirit as
our tax legislation,’ said Westdeutsche
Neue Presse (Essen, May 17). “It is
the spirit of the ‘social market econo-
my, the panacea of the Adenauer
government, which sees to it that a
small minority can make profits at
the expense of the overwhelming
majority of the people, which openly
and brutally helps to take the burd-
ens of the lost war off those who could
much more easily shoulder them. This
law will not help to ease the social
tensions, it will increase them; it will
disappoint millions of refugees who
have vainly waited for years for a
just distribution of the burdens.”

“The unique chance to settle these
war-caused claims has not been used
properly, complained Frankfurter

‘Rundschau (Frankfurt, May 17), adding:

“It seems to us that the name is all
that remained of the equalization of
war burdens idea... Property has not
been redistributed; only damages and
losses are being partially compensated.
The property holders do not have to
surrender part of their holdings, they
merely pay a tax running until 1979."

‘ty oF)

of
yPONALARg,

Grotewohl Rides for Germany. — Braun-
schweiger Zeitung (Brunswick), May 3.

MAY 1952

--- Page 32 ---
Slight Spring Expansion

Prepared by Commercial Attache Section
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

ITH THE BELATED. arrival of milder weather in March, certain sectors of the economy of West Germany

began to respond to spring activity. Coal and steel production continued to increase, though the latter *
still remains as a severe bottleneck to increased production. Industries following the building cycle are
reported to have picked up from their long winter slump and improvement has been noted in the foreign
trade position of the Federal Republic.

On the other hand, the market for consumer goods continued to react to reluctant consumer demand. As
prewar levels of consumption are approached, employed persons tend to hold back from further purchasing
in the hope of falling prices. Indeed, prices of consumer goods, excluding seasonal items, were leveling off in
March and even showed a slight downward trend. At the same time purchasers of industrial goods, who see
that rearmament is going to be spread over a longer period than was anticipated, are also exhibiting greater
hesitancy in placing orders. This drop in demand, unmatched by production, causes inventories of finished
and semi-finished goods to accumulate and thus tie up much-needed and scarce working capital. In turn this
is reflected by the expansion of credit which, as it is utilized, adds to the volume of money in circulation.

* * *

Another factor operating to increase
the currency circulation is the surplus
balance of payments existing in March
which resulted in an excess of out-pay-
ments by the banks. Coins and notes
alone have experienced increased velo-

American coal and cotton, and also of
textile raw materials, including wool.
The lower imports of cotton are the re-
sult of the large imports of cotton in
the previous several months, which
have almost exhausted the Export-Im-

This review is based on con-
tributions submitted by reports
officers in the Office of Economic
Affairs and the Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG.

city of circulation recently, though port Bank cotton loan of $50,000,000
probably due mainly to seasonal factors. Expansion has and for which practically no other, financing is presently
been somewhat restrained by the continued increase in available. Coal imports from the United States, which were .
bank savings; however, the-placing of industrial bonds has also lower, were almost all paid for in free dollars as a
fallen off somewhat but mainly because the issues were result pf the cessation of coal-steel barter transactions,
sold out in the earlier part of the year. On the whole, but the Iower volume of imports nevertheless represented
nevertheless, the factors leading towards expansion of a lower expenditure of free dollars which was reflected
the volume and velocity of money in circulation have in the stabilization of dollar reserves in March. This de-
been predominant, and though it might be expected that crease in coal imports from the United States is also
this would manifest itself in higher prices, rising pro- expected to continue in April.

duction has apparently been sufficient to absorb any in- Imports financed with foreign aid were $6,000,000 dur- .
creases in the supply and movement of money. ing March, the lowest figure in more than two and one-

half years. This, however, did not result in an expendi-
ture of free dollars to the extent that there was a decline
in the German dollar position; in fact, the dollar position
shows signs of again becoming stronger.

During March, the Federal Republic concluded a trade
agreement with the United Kingdom calling for an ex-
changé of goods totaling $360,000,000 in 1952.

The Federal Republic had a surplus of $35,500,000 in
the European Payments Union (EPU) for the month of
March, This brought its cumulative surplus to $135,100,000, ~
putting it into the second tranche (portion) of its quota.
The Federal Republic received, therefore, payments of
over $17,500,000,

Foreign Trade and Payments

In March, the Federal Republic's foreign trade showed
a Teversal of the unfavorable trends which had been
developing over the past several months. Imports, at
$347,000,000 in March, were about the same as February
($348,000,000); exports, on the other hand, rose from
$304,000,000 in February to $328,000,000 in March,

The higher export figure, largely reflecting seasonal
trends, was achieved despite the French and Sterling
area import restrictions, and in spite of the effect on
German exports of the stagnation of the world textile
market. A large part of the decreases in exports over
the past months has been traced to smaller exports of

cotton textiles and textile machinery. Industry

The Federal Republic's March imports showed in- February's total production index increased but slight-
creased deliveries of grains, edible oilseeds, sugar and ly, while preliminary figures for March indicate that the
iron ore. There were decreases, however, in imports of usual spring upsurge has taken hold. For the third month

MAY 1952. 29 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
in a row, the average daily production of coal, excluding

Sundays and holidays, hit a postwar peak — the March

* preliminary figure being 411,200 tons.* Total production
of coal during March is estimated at 10,750,000 tons.
While there is usually a reduction in output per manshift
in March, the output figure held steady this year at 1.48
tons — an encouraging augury for the productivity drive.
With the large number of workdays in March, total raw
steel production for the month reached a new postwar
record of 1,320,000 tons,

Though the part played by American coal in supporting
the production was less than in February or January
(160,000 tons attributable to American coal in March as

. compared to 195,000 tons in February and 285,000 tons
in January), the amount of steel produced by, West Ger-
man fuel was not substantially better than some of the
peak months in 1950 and early 1951 before American
coal was used. Nonetheless, as the result of both the
American and West German coal utilization, the daily
average output increased in both February and March.

The coal supply, however, is less of a bottleneck at
the moment than is the supply-of blast furnace coke and
scrap. The coking plants are at full capacity and ex-
pansion of capacity can only be accomplished gradually.
Scrap collections have been increasing in February and
March, but the outlook for continued increases is not,
bright. Orders booked in February increased substantially
over January with booking of 910,000 tons in February
compared to 734,000 tons in January. Of the February
bookings, 122,000 tons represented export orders compar-
ed to 88,000 tons in January.

The production of aluminum increased to about 6,000
tons in March — a normal seasonal occurrence due to
the increased water power availability. The production
of other principal non-ferrous metals showed no marked
changes from previous months. Due to the falling metal
prices, however, the semi-fabricators of copper, zinc, and
lead report lower sales, some reduction in the labor force
and financial difficulties for several metal traders. De-

: fense production orders are slowly increasing, but not on
a scale to compensate for the drop in normal business.

The production of basic chemicals is being maintained,
with the production of coal tar dyes and textile assistants
remaining at the same low level. However, a drop in
demand for methylalcohol and formaldehyde foreshadows
a contraction in the lacquer and plastics business.

The production of synthetic rubber has been curtailed

. Since the price for the German product cannot match the
prices for American synthetic rubber or natural rubber.
Instead of the planned 500 tons per month of Buna S-3,
production in March was only about 300 tons.

The deficiency of raw materials, particularly sheet
steel, continues to handicap manufacturers. The pro-
duction of vehicles is reportedly suffering due to the
lack of such steel; this shortage has caused some of the
producers to initiate a short work week (32 hours) in
some departments. The sheet steel situation is also re-
tarding machinery production. Here the order book
situation in many branches of the industry would warrant
a better capacity utilization with a considerable increase
in employment. The exception to this, of course, is the
heavily loaded machine tool industry where present
capacity is virtually filled.

Inland business differs in the various branches of the
machinery industry. Machine tools, compressors, shoe

* All tons, unless otherwise stated, are metric tons.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

repair machines and safes show a downward sales trend
while textile machines, laundry machines and fire ex-
tinguishing appliances show upward tendencies. In the
case of machine tools this is no doubt attributable to a
large increase in exports on priority orders. In general,
however, exports in the machinery industry suffer to a
large extent from the increase in costs, length of de-
livery time and lack of raw materials. Competition from
other countries is keenly felt, and very often prices have
to be reduced in order to stay in the market.

The production of cameras, especially in the high-priced
bracket, reportedly showed a downward trend in March.
Stocks in retail stores are said to be very high, the only
exception being the Rolleiflex and Rolleicord cameras
produced by Franke and Heidecke at Brunswick. Exports
— mainly to the United States — account for 85 to 90
percent of the entire output of this manufacturer.

The German electronics industry reports that television
receivers at an estimated price of DM 1,200 to DM 1,500
($285.60-357.00) will go on sale simultaneously with the
beginning of television transmission from Hamburg and
Berlin in the near future, Research work is being con-
ducted in color television, and it is claimed that a com-
bination black-and-while and color set will be develop-
ed soon.

In the consumer goods area, the comparatively un-
favorable development of retail sales, which was only
temporarily interrupted by the winter clearance sales
(Jan, 28 through Feb. 9), continued through March. The
textile, furniture, leather and shoe industries continue
to be most’ seriously affected with many of the plants
dismissing workers or operating on short time schedules.
Stocks in wholesale and retail channels are reported to
be abnormally high with manufacturers complaining of
too few orders on hand. While a favorable development
in the spring is expected, the retailers are still cautious
in placing orders of any magnitude. Raw material stocks
in the consumer industries, however, are feeling the pinch
of less available foreign exchange. As the monthly im-
port surplus of the Federal Republic continues, consumer
goods industries, which are the biggest importers, have
difficulty acquiring satisfactory stocks of imported raw
materials at the lowest world prices. ©

Labor

Large-scale hirings were undertaken in March by the
construction industry to compensate for the fact that the
industry had been weathered-in two months longer than
last year. Registered unemployment in the Federal Re-
public plunged sharply by 313,000 — the largest monthly
drop since currency reform (June 1948) — to a total of
1,580,000 at the end of March. The number of jobless was
only 13,000 higher than in March 1951, though in Febru-
ary 1952, it had been 230,000 above the previous year's
level. The estimated unemployment rate in terms of the
wage and salary earning labor force stood at 9.7 percent
in March 1952, as against 9.9 percent in March 1951.

With the revival of building activity, employment also
rose in the stones and earths industry, the building
materials branches of the electrical equipment industry,
the metal trades and transportation. Seasonal employ-
ment increases also occured in agriculture and forestry,
the clothing and food processing industries, and trade
and commerce, These latter developments accounted for
the drop in female unemployment and contributed to the
decrease of. male unemployment.

MAY 1952

--- Page 34 ---
Approximately 500,000 salaried employees in the feder-
al, state and local public services (excluding the Federal
Railways and Posts) received the equivalent of a 4.6 per-
cent monthly pay increase through a collective agreement
providing for an additional half-month’s salary each year.
The Public Services Union, which had originally request-
ed a flat 10 percent boost, accepted the present settle-
ment after several months of negotiation. Talks are con-
tinuing on increases in the various social supplements
and benefits now paid to public service employees. An
agreement covering manual workers in public employ is
also expected.

Rounding out the wage increases in the metal industry
jn the last six months, a wage raise of 2.2 percent, retro-
active to March 1, was granted to about 50,000 metal
workers in South Baden under an arbitration award.

Pay raises were also obtained by about 25,000 wage
earners in the food processing industry. The largest
group, about 15,000 in Bavaria, received a 5 percent
supplement, while a 6 to 8 percent boost went to 5,000
persons employed in the Lower Saxony canning industry.

Adding to the agricultural wage raises awarded in most
West German states, about 60,000 farm workers in the
new southwest state received wage increases from 8 to
10 percent on the average under a collective agreement
effective March 1 and valid until the close of the year.

Food and Agriculture

The supply position for all commodities continued to
be excellent during March. Trade agreement as well as
dollar-source imports remained high, and the liberaliza-
tion of trade with the EPU area and the continued allo-
cation of free dollars indicated favorable developments
in the over-all stock position. On April 1, the stock
position for the four basic dollar-imported commodities
shows breadgrain to be 2,120,000 tons (up 108 percent
from April 1, 1951), coarse grain 650,000 tons (up 87 per-
cent), white sugar 740,000 tons (up 98 percent) and pure
fats and oils 120,000 tons (up 48 percent). Forecasts are
that the July 1 stock position will also be an improve-
ment over last year in spite of the fact that there are no
additional free dollar or MSA expenditures for these
commodities which would arrive prior to July 1. In-
creased trade agreement imports and a reduction in both
world market prices and anticipated consumption needs
accounted for the unforeseen improvement in stocks.

Food prices continue to rise, and preliminary estimates
of the Federal Food Ministry indicate that these increases
are affecting consumption. Estimates on daily per capita
caloric intake for the US fiscal year 1951/52 have been
revised downward to approximately 2,780 from the 2,823
previously anticipated. The drop is largely in consump-
tion of bread and sugar. The diet may be slightly better
than anticipated, however, since consumption of protein-
tich products seems to be increasing slightly. The Federal
Government is considering reducing import duties on
several basic food commodities in order to prevent further
price increases and in order to increase consumption.

On the whole, March weather was favorable to agri-
culture, and the growth status of the winter crops as of
the end of the month was good. Reports indicate that the
intended spring planting will result in an increase of the
Toot crop area except for early potatoes, a further de-
crease in oats and increases in spring barley and spring
mixed grains. There are also prospects for an estimated
13 percent addition to the vegetable planting area — the

MAY 1952

31

first time an increase has been made since 1948. The ,
restrictive import measures and the high prices caused
by the small 1951 vegetable crop are the motivating
factors in this increase.

A recalculation of fruit production based on the new
fruit tree census of fall 1951, published in February, 1952,
reveals a total production of fresh fruit (apples, pears,
plums, apricots, peaches, cherries) in 1951 of 1,885,800,
tons as compared with 3,035,200 tons in 1950. The com-
paratively low yield in 1951 was due partly to the pro-
longed period of unfavorable weather in the spring of
1951 and partly to a reaction to the bumper crop of 1950.

March saw the incidence of foot and mouth disease
continue to decline. From the middle of February to the
middle of March the number of farms affected decreased
by almost 70 percent and the supply of vaccine increased
sufficiently so that government control over the distribu-
tion was lifted.

Western Berlin

Industrial deliveries of major enterprises — the 2,600
Berlin firms with 10 or more employees — totaled
DM _ 223,300,00 ($53,145,500) for February.* After adjust-
ment for the number of working days in each month ‘this
represented a 12 percent rise as compared with January
when the value of total deliveries was DM 207,100,000:
($49,289,800). The index of industrial production, which
is estimated from manufacturers’ current deliveries, rose
from 41 percent of 1936 to 47 percent,** thus regaining
December's level. The increage in delivery value .was
accounted for by gains in electrical and mechanical engi-
neering, and a seasonal rise — from about DM 19,000,000
($4,522,000) in January to DM 35,000,000 ($8,330,000) in
February —in the manufacture of clothing. Registered
industrial employment, excluding home workers, stood
at 169,000 at the end of February, a very slight increase
as compared with January. Most of the increased employ-
ment resulting from higher seasonal activity in the cloth-
ing industry is not reflected in official data because of
the exclusion of home workers.

For the city as a whole, reported employment of West
Berlin residents rose by about 5,000 during the first two
weeks of March, so that the number of gainfully occupied
(including self-employed) was almost 899,000. This figure
included some 40,000 persons employed on GARIOA work
relief projects and 15,000 workers on short-time schedules.
Registered unemployment was 272,000 or 23 percent of
the total labor force.

The value of Berlin's trade with outside areas remained
remarkably stable during February as compared with the
previous month.*** According to information reported by
the Federal Statistical Office, shipments from Berlin to West
Germany and foreign countries totaled DM 105,700,000
($25,136,600). Receipts of goods by Berlin increased from
DM 225,700,000 ($53,716,600) to DM 242,700,000 ($57,762,600).

In the field of public finance, it was probable that
Berlin completed the German fiscal year on March 31 an
approximately balanced budget due to federal aid of be-
tween DM 700,000,000 and 800,000,000 ($166,600,000-
190,400,000). It was also probable that tax receipts were
substantially higher than in the 1950/51 fiscal year. Pre-
cise tax and budgetary data on the year just ended will
not be available for several weeks. -+END

* Excludes electric power, gas and building,
#* Excludes food and stimulants, building, electric power and gas.
#*% Excludes parcel post shipments which are not included in offi-
cial data.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Laws and Regulations

Works Council Law

The Allied High Commission has ap-
proved a law depriving of effect in the
state of Lower Saxony the provisions of
Article 111, Paragraph 2, of Control Coun-
cil Law No, 22 (works councils), thus per-
mitting Lower Saxony legislation on works
councils to go into effect. The text of the
law was published in the Official Gazette
of the Allied High Commission.

Official Statement

Plane Attack Protested

A protest note was delivered April 29
by the Allied Kommandatura in Beriln to
V.I. Chuikov, commander-in-chief of Soviet
Occupation Forces in Germany and chair-
man of the Soviet Control Commission, re-
garding the attack earlier in ihe day on an
Air France plane by two Soviet fighters.
A copy of the note was also delivered to
Sergei Dengin, Berlin representative of the
Soviet Control Commission in Germany.
Text of the note follows:

“A French aircraft flying between Frank-
furt and Berlin was attacked this morning,
April 29, by two Soviet fighters in the
southern air corridor immediately above
the city of Koennern at an altitude of
7,000 feet.

“The Soviet fighters fired three times on
the French aircraft with both cannon and
machine guns, The aircraft carries several
shell holes and the marks of numerous ma-
chine gun bullets. Two passengers were
severely injured. The material damage is
considerable, and it was only with the
greatest difficulty that the aircraft made
its way to Berlin.

“In the name of their respective high
commissioners and in their own, the Brit-
ish, United States and French commandants
in Berlin protest energetically against this
unwarrantable attack by Soviet fighters
on a French aircraft, This attack was all
the more outrageous since the aircraft was,
in conformity with quadripartite agreement
in force, flying within the air corridor.

“The three high commissioners and the
British, United States and French com-
mandants in Berlin request that an investi-
gation be undertaken immediately by the
Soviets authorities, that those responsible
for this most serious incident be punished,
and that due reparation be made for ma-
terial damage to persons and property.”

Following a meeting of the three Western
commandants April 30 another note re-
garding the attack was addressed to the
Soviet commander-in-chief. Text of the
note follows:

“The attention of the three high com-
missioners and of the British, United Sta-
tes.and French commandants in Berlin has
been drawn to a letter which your assistant
chief-of-staff addressed on April 29 to the
French assistant chief-of-staff, in an ap-
parent effort to justify yesterday morn-
ing’s outrageous attack on a French aircraft.

“All the evidence confirms that the facts
of the incident are as stated in the letter
which was addressed to you yesterday;
That the aircraft was repeatedly fired on
by Soviet fighters and severely damaged;
and that it is not the case that the aircraft
was outside the air corridor when it was
attacked. Quit apart from this questions of
fact, to fire in any circumstances, even by

INFORMATION BULLETIN

way of warning, on an unarmed aircraft in
time of peace, wherever that aircraft may
be, is entirely inadmissible and contrary to
all standards of civilized behaviour.

“In the name of their respective high
commissioners, and in their own, the Brit-
ish, United States and French comman-
dants in Berlin must therefore reiterate
their vehement protest against this un-
warrantable and brutal attack, They must
also reiterate their request for an immedi-
ate investigation, for the punishment of
those responsible and for due reparation
for the damage caused.

“The three high commissioners and the
British, United States and French com-
mandants in Berlin await an early com-
munication from you.”

Both notes were signed by Maj. Gen.
Cc. F. C. Coleman, British commandant in
Berlin, who was chairman of the Allied
Kommandatura for the month of April.

A third note, signed by Maj. Gen. Lemuel *

Mathewson, US commandant in Berlin and
chairman of the Allied Kommandatura for
May, was sent General Chuikov. May 3,
requesting Soviet representation at the of-
ficial investigation of the damage. Text of
this notes follows:

“The three high commissioners and the
United States, French and British com-
mandants in Berlin have decided to ask
the United States, French and British re-
presentatives on the Air Safety Center to
determine the material damage caused by
Soviet aircraft to the French aircraft
(DC-4, F.B.E.L.1.) on the 29th of April.

“It would be appreciated if you give the
necessary instructions to the Soviet re-
presentative to take part in this inquriy
with his American, French and British col-
leagures.

“In order that the aircraft may be re-
paired and return to France as soon as
possible, the inquiry will take place on
Friday, the 9th of May, at 3 p.m. at Tem-
pelhof airfield where the aircraft in ques-
tion is located."

Official Announcements

Military Ticket Offices

A new one-year working agreement
governing the administration and oper-
ation of US military ticket offices
(USMTOS) in Germany has been ‘con-
cluded between American and German
transportation officials

The USMTO administration will con-
tinue as a separate operational unit within
the German Travel Bureau Organization
(DER) with the sole function of conducting
the business of the military ticket offices.
Appointment of key officials in the USMTO
administration will remain subject to con-
currence by the EUCOM chief of transpor-
tation who also retains general supervision
over the program.

In. an organizational change under the
new agreement, the Regensburg area was
incorporated in the Nuremberg District,
leaving four districts, Frankfurt, Heidel-
berg, Nuremberg and Munich.

A total of 66 military ticket offices have
been opened under the EUCOM program
during the past two years on property made
available by the German railroads, Total
cost of construction or renovation amount-
ing to approximately DM3,000,000 ($714,000),
as well as costs of operation, were financed
by the US Army through sale of non-duty
travel tickets to authorized American and
Allied personnel.

cy

Under the original agreement, signed
March 1950, all MTO facilities will become
the property of the German railroads when
they are no longer needed for Americans.
This provision is still in force.—from
EUCOM announcement April 18.

Carnet Requirements

In response to recent inquiries relative
to Carnet requirements, the following in-
formation is furnished:

Carmets are only required for Sweden,
England and Spain. For all western Euro-
pean countries a Jaissez-passer (temporary
custom clearance document) is issued at
the border of country to be entered, except
for Norway, where Jaissez-passer must be
obtained upon entry into Denmark.

This Jaissez-passer is given without charge
in the Benelux countries and can be ob-
tained for a nominal fee at the French,
Swiss, Italian or Danish borders.

Carnets are expensive and require $50
deposit with the American Express Com-
pany, which is the issuing agency for car-
nets for US personnel in Germany. Con-
sequently, carnets are disadvantageous
unless absolutely necessary (i. e., travel
to: England, Sweden or Spain).—from
HICOG Official Bulletin No. 14,

Recent Publications

Field Organization of the Office of the U.S.
High Commissioner for Germany, Histor-
ical Division, Office of the Executive
Secretary, HICOG (Mehlem), Feb. 15,
1952, Limited distribution.

Documents on Field Organization of the
Office of the U.S. High Commission for
Germany 1949-1951, Historical Division,
Office of the Executive Secretary, HICOG
(Mehlem), Feb. 15, 1952. Supplement to
above,

Der Neger im amerikanischen Leben (The
Negro in American Life), Special Publica-
tions Staff, Information Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt),
April 23, 1952. Ilustrated brochure in
German, presenting graphic picture to
the peoples of Western Germany and
westem Europe of the progress and
development of the American Negro in
the past 90 years.

Buecher Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 67,
US Information Centers Branch, Division
of Cultural Affairs, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), May 1, 1952.
List of books to be distributed among
the US Information Centers in Germany.

Wir koennen es schaffen (We Can Do It),
Special Publications Staff, Information
Division, Office of Public Affairs; HICOG
(Frankfurt), May 5, 1952, Text in Ger-
man of the report by General Dwight
D, Eisenhower on the third anniversary
of the establishment of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization—200,000 copies di-
stributed.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
No. 39, High Commission of the French
Government in Germany, May 12, 1952.
Official French monthly report for
March.

Der Monat (The Month), No, 44, Information
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Berlin), May 12, 1952.

Information Bulletin for April, Information
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), May 19, 1952.

MAY 1952

--- Page 36 ---


--- Page 37 ---
Christian Fette (center), chairman of the German Federation of Trade Unions,
with Michael Harris (left), chief of the MSA Special Mission for Economic
Cooperation in Germany, and Philip A. Heller, MSA labor information officer,
examines the German edition of the pamphlet ‘Brief History of American Labor."
The pamphlet, originally issued by the US Department of Labor, was printed in
Germany by the trade-union's publishing house, providing a distribution of 400,000
copies. Its title in German is “Im Kampf um Soziale Freiheit — Kurze Geschichte
der amerikanischen Gewerkschaften.” (DGB photo from MSA)

Boy Scouts, representing American, British and German troops in Berlin, partici-
pated in a three-day Camporee on the shore of Lake Wannsee in April. Watching
a songfest session (background left to right): Lt. Col. J. T. Shepard, scoutmaster
of Berlin Troop No. 46; Brig. Gen. Maurice W. Daniel, commanding general of
Berlin Military Post, and Albert Wehr, educational director acting as coordinator
for the German Youth Activities in Berlin. (US Army photo)