--- Page 2 ---
THIS ISSUE:
Refugee Capital: Berlin page 3
Hanover Youth Forum page 7
American Farm Girl in Germany pages 16-17

DECEMBER
1952

--- Page 3 ---
German Toys for American Orphans

More than 5,000 toys and Christmas decorations were
shipped to the United States in October for distribution
to American orphans as a gesture from German toy-
makers of gratitude and appreciation for the kindness
shown toward German orphans in the postwar ye

The toys -- gift of more than 150 German man-
ufacturers were donated by members of the German
Toymakers Association to the US Army Quartermaster
Association for distribution in American orphanages.

rs.

The toys were accepted by Col. Webster Anderson,
deputy chief, Quartermaster Division, USAREUR, on be-

half of the Quartermaster Association. The gifts were in
return for the many American toys distributed by the
Quartermaster Association to German orphans during
the past five years.

The toys were be packed, crated and shipped stateside
by Quartermaster Association officials in Munich for dis-
tribution to American orphanages before Christmas.

Lt. Col. George E. Eaton, the Nuremberg Military Post
quartermaster, served as liaison officer with the toy-
makers and arranged a collection point for the toys.
Toymakers throughout western Germany participated.

(photo above) Brig. Gen. Ernest A. Bixby, commander of the Nuremberg Military Post, assists in inspecting some

of the toys.

Europe, accepts the gift of toys from Ernest T. Horn, secretary of the German Toymakers Association,
Mangold, chairman, and CWO W. C. Shutte (dressed as Santa Claus) look on.

PIESERT These fsb American

THE QUARTERWASTER
CON «
x

OF VE

ZHEMBERS meet

_ EN SPIELWAREN we a
%- INDUSTRIE

(photo below) Col. Webster Anderson (right), deputy chief of the Quartermaster Division, US Army

as G. A.
(US Army photos from NMP PIO)

ASSOCIATION

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff
Editor ..... ..H. Warner Waid
Assistant ...Frank H. Jonas
Feature Editor ...Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8728, 8896, 8958
The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, by offset process, by
the Printing and Reproduction Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located in Bad Godes-
berg-Plittersdorf.

Distribution is handled by the Dis-
tribution Unit, Communications Serv-
ices Division, Office of Executive Di-
rector, HICOG. This unit is located
in US Headquarters Building, Room
949, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with -in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

Correspondence concerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Public Affairs
Field Center or the American Con-
sulate General. 5

Correspondence concerning inquir-
ies and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
, Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

December 1952

German Toys for American Orphans . inside front cover
Pictorial Feature

Refugee Capital: Berlin ..............2. 8
Article by James C. Flint

International Film Exchange ............ 6
Review of Inaugural Conference

Hanover Youth Forum .. . S000 000 0 os5 6
Article by Francis C. Lindaman

United States Educational Commission ....... 9
Review of Initial Conference

Survey of Information Program .. . soe ee ee 10
Statement by Senator J. W. Fulbright

RIAS under Eastern Fire... ...........201
Review of Soviet Zone Attacks

Brave towards Truth ..... Sel S|
Address by Prof. Theodor Heuss

American, German Pupils Exchange Visits in Stuttgart 15
Feature by Millard Harmon

American Farm Girl in Germany ..... . . . . 16-17
Pictorial feature

Student Purge in Soviet Zone .........2.2.. 18
Summary of Press Reports

Soviet Zone Adulation for Soviet Union ....... 19
Summary of Press Reports

Kidnaping of Dr. Walter Linse ........... 21
Statement by Dr. Johannes Stumm

In and Around Germany .............. 23
Personnel Notes ................2.2. 26
German Editorials ..............2.2.. 28
Official Announcements... ...........2.2. 31

New York Club Banner Made in Germany inside back cover
Pictorial Feature

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
White iron beds are really of real luxury.

x
2
2
3
2
&
S
2
2
a
3
2
g
=
8
+ J
a
=
s
ev
‘3
3
>
2
3
‘3
=
3
=
3

The young and the aged hope for better future.

‘aiting outside for word on their future.

Youngsters, free and happy at last, have their fun

his is the only home that many know.

--- Page 6 ---
Refugee Capital: Berlin

by James C. Flint

Chief, Cultural Affairs Branch, Berlin Element, Berlin

INCE WAR'S END, Berlin has accepted nearly 300,000

uprooted persons. For a city—war torn, isolated, once
blockaded—to absorb as many people as there are in
Fort Worth, Texas, or Birmingham, Ala., or Jersey City,
N.J., or Toledo, Ohio, is no small achievement.

Approximately half of these newcomers were German
expellees from the areas of the former expanded Third
Reich. These East Prussians, Sudetenlanders and others,
forced here in 1945 and 1946, have since integrated
themselves more or less successfully into the Berlin
economy. Some found employment; others, along with
many an old and new Berliner, exist on relief.* They
have adjusted themselves well to the Berlin life, but still
have their own organizations, where, like famous captive
refugees of a Biblical day, they sing their old songs and
dream of return to a home they do not want to forget.

Then came the refugees from Germany’s East Zone.
Since 1949, over 275,000 of them sought asylum in Berlin.
Of this number, a handful have doubtless returned to
the Soviet “paradise”; 125,000 of them were transported
to the Federal Republic; and the rest—more than
150,000—stayed in Berlin. Monthly, new thousands are
added to this total; the average for the last quarter ex-
ceeded 7,500 persons a month. bs

ESTERN OFFICIALS and Eastern resistance lead-

ers were alike in calling for measures to limit the
flow of refugees from the Soviet Zone. An East, denuded
of its best people, would leave that area an easier
prey to Soviet intentions, make desired resistance more
difficult and complicate the task of re-establishing the
good life once the hoped for day of liberation arrived
Berlin, scarcely free from a fettering blockade, could
hardly be expected to care for more than its own.

This line of reasoning—more active resisters in the
East, fewer idle refugees in the West—made sense. It
made headway too. Each year from 1949 to 1951, there
was a progressive decline in refugee figures. In 1949,
69,800 persons sought safety in Berlin; in 1950, 60,300;
in 1951, only 55,000.

In early ‘52 it looked as if the downward trend might
not continue. Berlin, its economic recovery making but
limping progress, knew it could not accept increased
refugee burdens. Thus early in February 1952, the city
adopted the Federal Republic’s legislation for the recep-
tion of refugees. Primary aim of this measure was to

*Present figures show that approximately one out of every ten
Persons in Berlin receives some form of social assistance.

DECEMBER 1952

decrease the desire of the potential refugee to leave the
East by making him aware that reception in the West
would not be automatic; his status uncertain. Practical
result was that Berlin and Bonn concluded a working
agreement whereby the Federal Republic would accept
80 percent of all people classed as “recognized political
refugees.”

O GET THIS classification, the applicant went before

one of the screening teams. Five-man units, com-
posed mainly of former refugees, probed into reasons
for flight. They watched carefully for spies and agents;
weeded out opportunists from those truly forced to flee.
Those who could establish the fact they fled either
because of danger to life and personal safety or for some
sufficiently pressing reason were given status as rec-
ognized political refugees. The others were turned down.
Examiners were strict; one-third of those appearing
were recognized; two-thirds rejected.

By April of ‘52, it looked as if the new legislation were
having the desired effect. Numbers began to drop, but
optimism was shortlived. The Soviets saw to that. On
May 11 Communist Party leaders’ speeches suddenly
hinted that youth might expect some form of military
service. The signing of the Contractual Agreements was
followed immediately by the creation of the six-mile
deep “cordon sanitaire” between East and West Ger-
many. Access to West Berlin was to be shut off by
July 1. Dienst fuer Deutschland (service for Germany)
was introduced. The program of expanded Sovietization

Talking with refugee children in the camp in Kreuzberg
borough of Berlin are (left to right): Camp Leader
Golschey; Harlan Cleveland, assistant director for Europe
for the Mutual Security Agency in Washington; Mr.
Flint, author of this article; Ambassador Paul Porter,
deputy special representative for economic affairs, Paris.

--- Page 7 ---
moved into high gear, with property owners and petty
bourgeoisie as chief targets.

Western laws governing refugee reception no longer
had their deterrent effect. Pleas voiced by Western
leaders to their Eastern brothers not to flee unless in
actual danger had the same effect on this gathering
human tide as did the words of King Canute to hold
back the sea. In May, 8,000 refugees streamed into
western Germany and West Berlin; 14,000 in June; with
a high of 17,800 recorded in August. October and No-
vember figures dipped slightly to 16,500.

REAT AS WAS the overall refugee increase; still

greater was the proportion of those seeking asylum
in Berlin. In June, but 52 percent of those fleeing the
Soviet Zone came to Berlin; in October 94 percent. With
the closing of the East-West borders, Berlin was the
one safe port of escape for all the persecuted and the
fearful.

Why did they flee, these tens of thousands? Some
because their underground political activity had been
discovered and their lives were in danger. Some because
they lost their homes and property. Particularly bitter
were those inhabitants who had been moved lock, stock
and barrel from the six-mile “Sperr-Gebiete” and with
nothing in the East to look forward to, decided to seek
their fate in the West. Farmers came, particularly in
the late fall months, because they saw what they had
—or did not have—left over after the authorities took
their share of the harvest. Intellectuals and professionals
came—though not in large numbers—because they could
no longer put up spiritual resistance to the Soviet id-
eological nonsense they were forced to hear or dispense.
Youth came in thousands because they feared certain
military service. The boys came first; months later, their
girls followed them.

During recent visit to Berlin, Rep. Emanuel Celler (left),
chairman of US House Judiciary Committee, discussed
refugee problems with Dr. Otto Bach, Berlin senator for

social affairs. (HICOG-Berlin photo by Schubert)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Scattered among the refugees were criminals, never
to be good citizens in any system. There were the old
and the maimed—the socially non-productive, whom
Eastern authorities encourage to flee. There is no place
in the Soviet system for those who cannot carry their
own weight. There were also agents and spies, sent
with the most careful “documentation” to entitle them
to recognition as political refugees. These were the ex-
ceptional cases.

The great bulk came because they simply could not
take the East any longer. As one Eastern intellectual
put it, himself no refugee but a man who still fights the
battle, the refugee wave today is comparable to the
emigration wave a half century ago. Europeans, weary
of the drudgery they knew in their daily lives, then
went West to an unknown future. They took their
chances, certain that what awaited them could be no
worse than what they were leaving. So it is with the
East German today; he too goes West, not knowing
what his reception may be, but sure that the chances are
better than where he is.

OR THE AVERAGE refugee, there is not too much

in store. If given status as a recognized political
refugee, he is given the right to work, if he can find
it; and the right to seek independent, permanent res-
idence, if he can find it. In Berlin, the chances are that
he will get no work and poor housing. His recognition
entitles him to unemployment insurance and compensa-
tion for lodging. Though such social assistance is as
generous as possible, it does not exceed 90 marks per
month for a single person, nor 200 marks per month for
a family.

In the event that the recognized refugee is among
those flown to western Germany—the Berlin-Bonn agree-
ment of Feb. 4, 1952, provided that the Federal Republic
would accept 80 percent of the politically recognized
refugees—his chances of finding work and lodging are
better. But even in the more prosperous Federal Repub-
lic, he may still find himself among the unemployed.

The non-recognized refugee fares less well. He has
no chance of going to western Germany. He has neither
the right to work in West Berlin nor to seek independ-
ent, permanent residence there. He receives minimum
social assistance; but no unemployment insurance.
Legally, he is expected to pay back all assistance given
to him, if ever circumstances permit. Few believe these
“debts” will be repaid.

The non-recognized refugee who has been for a long
time in Berlin has generally adjusted himself to this
type of makeshift existence. With the mass of new
arrivals since May of this year, the story is somewhat
different.

ERLIN WAS unprepared for a refugee flow, in
nature and size, reminiscent of the days of mass
movement of distressed humanity immediately following
the war. The city rose to this small crisis as it had to
greater ones. All available resources were marshaled

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 8 ---
to provide emergency shelter and food for the new
arrivals. Partially bombed factory buildings, hitherto
not returned to use because of their condition, were
made into hastily improvised quarters. Experts and
refugee helpers turned to make them  winterfast
before the arrival of the cold weather. In one such fac-
tory building there was the ironic task of removing old
signs, printed in Dutch, French, German and Russian,
notifying “refugees” of the Nazi forced labor program
that “Smoking Is Prohibited.”

These are the refugee “camps” of today. Since June 1
of this year, Berlin has assembled out of broken bits
and pieces here and there 17 new camps capable of car-
ing on a minimal basis for the needs of 8,700 refugees.
In total, the city now has 64 camps with a capacity of
17,700 people. They are constantly full, new emergency
shelters are erected frequently, and a new permanent
camp with a capacity of 2,000 refugees is being rushed
to completion.

Its type of construction varies from the usual run of
such refugee camps. Local authorities decided against
less expensive barrack construction and in favor of per-
manent housing, a sign of their confidence that the day
would come when the refugee is no more. As Berlin’s
senator for social affairs, Otto Bach, said at the Richtfest*
ceremony, “This building is a symbol of the split in
Germany, but also of our faith in its reunification. We
have built here, not temporary barracks but permanent
houses, which one day will be dwellings for Berlin cit-
izens.”

T= PHYSICAL needs of the refugees are being met;
not handsomely, but adequately. In the main, re-
sources for this come from public sources. Private char-
ities, both German and foreign, have helped, both with
goods and services. The majority of the Berlin camps
are under the direction of private agencies—the German
Red Cross, Caritas, Arbeiterwohlfahrt, Evangelisches
Hilfswerk, and others. Camp personnel is furnished by
these agencies; food, supplies and other financial assist-
ance comes from the city or the Federal Government.
The job being done by the voluntary agencies is a mon-
umental one and sacrificial. As public officials frankly
admit, a mark in the hands of the private agencies goes
farther in refugee service than when officialdom alone
does the operating.

The psychological needs of the refugee are being met
less adequately. Not because there is any less desire to
do a fine job in this regard, but rather because the task
is the greater, to the point of being almost insurmount-
able. It is not easy to meet the psychological needs of
People condemned, through no fault of their own, to a
barracks existence for years, with no job, no roots, no
certain hopes.

Entertainment and diversion help. German authorities
know this. HICOG has lent a hand. Film showings, visits

—_—
*roof-raising.

DECEMBER 1952

High Commissioner Donnelly, during visit to the Cen-
tral Refugee Office Sept. 10, congratulated Dr. Elisabeth
Gerhartz, head of the Medical Examination Department.

of the America House Bookmobile, distribution of read-
ing material, including back copies of the Neue Zeitung
and other US-sponsored publications, have all been
carried out. A still talked about feature was the camp
appearances during the September Berlin Cultural
Festival of members of the cast of “Porgy and Bess.”
Self-help programs are organized; sewing equipment
and material provided, that mothers may make and
remake clothing. Kindergarten programs are supported.
Church organizations, knowing the importance of spir-
itual help in time of despair, hold church services in the
camps, and more important, try to integrate camp in-
mates into the normal life of the nearby parish.

LL SUCH EFFORTS help, but can do only so much.

Until the refugee can return home or put down new,
firm roots in some community, his problem will never
be solved. To the West, he can be a source of strength
or a problem. Homeless, non-integrated into community
life, unhappy, unemployed or untrained, he is an easy
victim to the lures of the extremists on the right. Recent
communal elections have more than hinted at such a
possibility.

The refugee, like any person, cannot forever exist on
the spiritual strength of hatred for these things he is
against. He needs the more nourishing faith of someth-
ing to live for. The provision of such an ideal and the
ability to put it across to these displaced thousands is
the West’s greatest present challenge.

We do the refugee, and ourselves, a great harm when
we see him either coldly as a statistic or mellowly as
the object of our charity. He is a human being, with the
right to live happily and the will to live meaningfully.
Whether he is our friend or ultimate foe depends on
our will to see him so. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

tf
i
if
Hi
iH

--- Page 9 ---
International Film Exchange

OR THE FIRST time in 19 years a film exchange

committee has been organized in Germany to cir-
culate the thousands of cultural and scientific films pro-
duced yearly in the Western world to schools, univer-
sities, scientific organizations and other interested
groups.

In a two-day conference sponsored Nov. 5 and 6 by the
Multi-National Center of Nuremberg, 40 representatives
of German film clubs, documentary film producers,
universities and the federal and state governments
formed a nine-man committee headed by Prof. Werner
Leibbrand, psychology professor at Erlangen University.
The new film group is known as the German committee
of the “Comité International du Cinema Educatif et Cul-
turel (CIDALC), an international organization with head-
quarters at Paris which provides for non-commercial
film exchange among thirty nations.

Dr. Hans Kuhn, elected secretary-general of the Ger-
man organization, said the German CIDALC group,
when it gets into operation, will open up new opportun-
ities for German organizations to obtain educational films
for use in their work.

NE OF THE first tasks of the committee will be to
catalogue all cultural and scientific films in Ger-
many, and to maintain lists of such films available in
other countries. Another task will be to search out unu-
sual amateur films with great scientific or educational
value, which are unknown to schools and universities.

As an example of this: need, the conference saw the
first public screening of a color medical film of a unique
spinal operation, made by a Hamburg surgeon before
the war and discovered recently under a pile of rubble.
As an example of foreign films which the committee

Attending the conference were (left to right): Herbert
Seggelke, cultural film writer and producer; Dr. Johan-
nes Eckardt, president of the Association of German
Film Clubs, Augsburg; Dr. Hans Kuhn, newly elected
general secretary of the Film Committee, Nuremberg,
Hans W. Lavies of the German Institute for Films, Wies-

baden. (Nuernberger Nachrichten photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

might procure for Germany, the conference saw “Beef
and Rice,” a French film showing a Marshall Plan pro-
gram to introduce new crops in southern France, which
might, according to Dr. Kuhn, provide completely new
food supplies to Europe.

Last year more than 500 documentary films were pro-
duced in West Germany and this year 400 have already
been released, ranging from feature-length cultural
movies to short technical films. Yet many of them get
relatively small circulation, since no central organization
exists to inform educational and scientific groups of their
contents and availability.

HE GERMAN CIDALC will provide this central ex-
change for the first time since a similar committee
was dissolved by the Nazi culture chamber in 1933.

Nicolat Pillat, founder of the international CIDALC
organization, expressed his pleasure at seeing a Ger-
man chapter formed, and said that he believed “the Ger-
man contribution to CIDALC will be substantial since
the rapid economic recovery indicates that the German
film production will soon regain its former eminent
place in the European film industry.”

Members of the German CIDALC group are:

Professor Leibbrand, chairman.

Dr. Johannes Eckhardt, president of the Association
of German Film Clubs, Augsburg.

Fridolin Schmid, director of Film and Picture Institute,
Munich.

Hans W. Lavies, Institute of Filmkunde, Wiesbaden-
Biebrich.

Dr. Gotthard Wolf, director of Goettingen University
Film Institute.

Dr. Hans Cuerlin, art historian and independent film
producer, Berlin.

Dr. O. Meurer, representative of Ministry of Culture
of North Rhine-Westphalia, Duesseldorf.

Dr. Egmont Zechlin, director of the Hamburg Univer-
sity Institute for Radio and Television.

Dr. Hans Kuhn, general-secretary and cultural adviser
to the US Public Affairs Field Center in Nuremberg.

“Nicest Story”

While waiting for a train at the railroad station,
we were having a glass of beer together with a blind
fellow war veteran. All of sudden the waiter slipped
a five-mark coin into the hand of our blind friend.
“It’s from that American officer at the next table,” he
said. When our friend wanted to say his thanks, the
donor was gone. (Stuttgarter Nachrichten, Nov. 21.)

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 10 ---
Scene of portion of audience and participants at the youth forum on radio in the NWDR studios in Hanover.

Hanover Youth Forum

by Francis C. Lindaman
Public Affairs Officer, Hanover

HEN THE Hanover Youth Forum held its 50th
meeting on the eve of the US presidential elections
Nov. 3 to discuss the timely topic “Eisenhower, Steven-
son and Ourselves,” it was marking two years of con-
tinuous service to the younger generation of Hanover.

Organized shortly after the Hanover America House
was opened, the Youth Forum has won for itself the
attention, respect and enthusiasm of a large and influen-
tial segment of the population of the State of Lower
Saxony. Members of federal and state ministries and
legislative bodies have participated in the Forum’s
activities.

The minister president of Lower Saxony, Hinrich Kopf,
awarded one of the youthful winners of the Forum’s
quiz contest “Something Entirely Different” an eight-
day trip to Bonn to visit the Houses of Parliament and
various ministries.

The minister of social welfare for Lower Saxony,
Heinrich Albertz, gave another contestant a study trip
to the Bundestag. The city of Hanover offered a trip to

DECEMBER 1952

the Weserbergland with a group of students from

Bristol, England.

e Three local travel agencies each contributed two-day
bus trips to Bonn.

Local theaters, shops, restaurants and private agencies
donated a total of thirty prizes for this program which
was a departure, on one occasion, from the more serious
type of program presented regularly by the Youth
Forum. That the Forum has become a trusted and re-
spected instrument of public opinion for the youth of
the Hanover area it attested by the fact that school
administrators and government educational agencies
respond promptly and enthusiastically to appeals for
participation in the Forum.

HE FOLLOWING statement, published by Gerhard
Merzyn, Chairman of the Youth Forum Committee,
on the occasion of the Forum’s second anniversary, sums
up the philosophy behind the organization—if, indeed,

7 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
such a vehicle of expression for non-organized youth
can be called an organization:

At the end of October 1950, we organized a Forum
for the younger generation of Hanover, because many
people felt that, after ‘yesterday’s alignment, a large
number of isolated youth organizations had sprung up
between whom and non-organized youth, which formed
a large majority, there was no contact whatsoever; and
because many young people were interested in dis-
cussing political questions and current problems, but
were reluctant to get in touch with the political parties
themselves.

Therefore, we decided to try bringing together under
one roof the younger generation, irrespective of educa-
tion, profession, social class, confession or political
allegiance, for the purpose of joining in all sorts of
civic activities. The best place for this, a sort of neutral
ground, it seemed to us, was the newly-opened Ame-
rica House.

Depending upon the nature and timeliness of the
subject, 300 to 700 youths have been taking part in these
biweekly discussion evenings regularly ever since, with
an evergrowing number coming from the radio, the
press, the ministries, the political parties and other
opinion-forming organizations. We are not held together
by membership rules or a club constitution. We have a
common desire to listen, think things over and then
form our opinions. We try to respect one another’s
views, overcome our mental lethargy and take an
active part in public life.

Discussion based on short talks by experts of dif-
ferent opinions appeared to us to be the first impor-
tant step towards civic responsibility. The experts—
from all walks of public life—have sacrificed much of
their time and energy to give us invaluable aid. Their
knowledge supplemented and improved ours, and paved
the way for fruitful discussions.

We have never aimed at reaching a common opinion,
or at finding a universal solution to a problem, but »

Guest speaker Dr. Elrich Sahm of the German Foreign
explains
at youth forum

Office in Bonn,
Foreign Service”

“Three Years of German
in Hanover YMCA.

rather at hearing, learning to respect and discussing a
variety of well-founded opinions. With appropriate
humor at the right time, and with democratic observ-
ance of the rules of the game, we have tried to realize
a truly free yet moderate and courteous exchange of
opinions. We have always been keenly conscious of
the blessings of healthy compromise and the dangers
of prejudice and intolerance. We have acquired a clear
conception of our rights and duties as young citizens,
and we believe we have achieved a better mutual
understanding.

HEN THE Forum Committee decided to have a dis-

cussion on radio in everyday life, local station —
NWDR offered the facilities of its large broadcasting
auditorium. More than 700 young men and women
crowded into the studio and more than a hundred others
had to be turned away because of lack of space. Again
when the group discussed “Three Years of German
Foreign Policy” they were invited to meet in the audito-
rium of the Hanover YMCA.

Most of the meetings, however, take place in the
America House, although no American has ever served f
as chairman of a discussion or tried to influence the
choice of subject. The Hanover Public Affairs Office is
enthusiastic about the Youth Forum, lends moral and,
at times, material support, but basically it is a German
enterprise; as such it began and as such it continues.

Big names have frequently figured among the guest
speakers in the Forum’s programs. On the program
“United Europe Now—Or?”, Mrs. Baehnisch, (later) pres-
ident of the governmental district of Hanover, shared
the rostrum with a journalist from Munich’s newspaper,
Sueddeutsche Zeitung. On the discussion of the Schuman
Plan a delegate of the Lower Saxony state Legislature,
a deputy of the Federal Parliament, and an American
professor from New York University gave the opening
talks. On the topic “Is Culture Luxury” the director of
the German theater in Goettingen disputed some points
with the press chief of the Lower Saxony State Chan-
cellery.

HE WORLD Lutheran Assembly in Hanover in August

made possible the program “Christian Youth from
Five Continents,” which presented representatives from
China, the United States, Indonesia, Ethiopia, Brazil,
Australia, India and Germany. Of intense interest to the
youth of Hanover was the forum on “Struggle for Ber-
lin” participated in by ranking Berlin members of the
Free Democratic, Christian Democratic and Social Dem-
ocratic Parties and the Political Youth Ring.

Probably the success of the Hanover Youth Forum
can best be expressed in the tribute of a young woman
student whose father died in a concentration camp:
“If we had forums like this throughout Germany in the
days of the Weimar Republic, the world would have
been spared the tragedy of National Socialism.” +END

DECEMBER 1952

_

--- Page 12 ---
UGMENTING the current HICOG exchange-of-per-

sons program in Germany, a binational United
States Educational Commission of Americans and Ger-
mans has been instituted in Mehlem to administer the
educational exchange program between Germany and
the United States under the Fulbright Agreement.

Appointment of the five Americans, all residing at the
time in Germany, was made in September by US High
Commissioner Walter J. Donnelly. At the same time
German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer announced the
names of the five German members of the commission.
The initial meeting was held in Mehlem Sept. 29.

The Americans named to the commission were:

Sam H. Linch, chief of the Exchange of Persons Staff,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, and working chair-
man of the group.

George A. Selke, chief of the Division of Cultural
Affairs, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Mrs. Edward Olsen, civic leader in Berlin and wife
of Lt. Col. E. H. Olsen of the Berlin Military Post.

Fred Tautfest of Duesseldorf, general manager of the
International Harvester Company of Germany.

Edward Zdunek, general manager of the Opel Works
of Ruesselsheim, near Frankfurt.

United States Educational Commission

The German members were:

Prof. Walter Hallstein, state secretary of the German
Foreign Office in Bonn.

Ernst Burkart, official of the Ministry of Culture of
Lower Saxony.

Prof. Edwin Pues, rector of the University of Goet-
tingen and president of the West German Conference
of University Rectors.

Prof. Theodor Klauser of the University of Bonn,
chairman of the German Academic Exchange Service.

Dr. Richard Merton, president of the Foundation of
German Science.

HE UNITED States Educational Commission, au-
thorized under the Fulbright Agreement signed July
18 by the two countries, was initially responsible for
selecting 250 Germans each year and determining their
financial grants. However, the commission requested the
HICOG Exchange of Persons Staff to work with the
local German committees which had the responsibility
for making the preliminary screening of university stu-
dents to participate in the 1952 program. .
A limited number of graduate and undergraduate
university students from the Federal Republic of Ger-
many and West Berlin were to be selected for a year’s

The initial meeting of the commission was addressed (above) by High Commissioner Donnelly and (below) by Dr. Wal-

ter Hallstein. Others in the photos include members of the commission and HICOG officials.

(PLB/IB HICOG photos)

--- Page 13 ---
study in the United States next year. These students will
be awarded grants which will include round-trip trans-
portation to America provided through the US Educa-
tional Commission and school and living expenses pro-
vided by US governmental and private agencies.

The Fulbright Program of mutual exchange between
Germany and the United States was established under
an executive agreement, providing DM 4,200,000
($1,000,000) a year for five years for trips of both Ger-
man and American university students and professors,
secondary school teachers and research scholars to each
other’s countries. The program is financed from the sale
of surplus materials and properties shipped abroad by
the United States.

Applications for student grants were considered from
graduates and undergraduates who did not have private
scholarships in America available to them. Applicants
for Fulbright scholarships under the Student Program
must be German citizens less than 35 years of age who
were proficient enough in English to study in an Amer-
ican university. Graduate students who have the equiv-
alent of a bachelors degree would be given preference.

Bie FULBRIGHT Act specifically states that the final
selection of individuals and institutions are the re-
sponsibility of the Board of Foreign Scholarships which
is a ten-member group composed of Americans prom-
inent in educational and cultural activities, appointed by
the President of the United States. The overall admin-
istration of the program is vested in the Department of
State.

The Fulbright Program in Germany continues the ac-
ademic exchange projects between the United States

Among the members attending the first meeting were

(left to right): Fred Tautfest, Ernst Burkhart and
Dr. F. Gummert who was representing Dr. Richard
Merton. (PLB/ID HICOG photo)

and Germany which have been carried out since 1948
under the US Government’s Exchange of Persons Pro-
gram. This means that approximately the same number
of German students, professors, and teachers will be
sent to the United States under the Fulbright Program
next year as has been there during the current year.

This program will augment and be in addition to the
regular Exchange of Persons Program carried out by
HICOG which will send almost 2,000 German leaders,
trainees and teenagers to the United States in the com-
ing year. In the past five years, more than 8,000 Ger-
man men and women have visited America on exchange
visits of which more than 1,500 German university stu-
dents and 800 professors and teachers trainees have
spent a year in ‘American institutions of higher learning,

Survey of Information Activities

The following statement was issued by Senator J. W.
Fulbright, chairman of the Subcommittee on Overseas
Information Programs on the United States, on his
arrival in Bonn Dec. 8 for a series of conferences with
HICOG authorities.

Early last summer the United States Senate authorized
a subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Foreign Re-
lations to conduct a study of the overseas information
Programs of the United States Government. Senator
Connally, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee,
asked me to act as chairman of the Subcommittee.

My principal reason for coming to Europe at this time
is to spend a few days studying the activities of the
United States Information Service. A good many people
believe the United States information program is only
the Voice of America. Our overseas programs are much
broader, however, and cover such matters as the ex-
change of persons, press service, libraries, motion pic-
tures and certain cultural activities. I expect to study
each of these programs as carried on in several Eu-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ropean countries. Other members of the subcommittee
are now proceeding to the Near, the Middle, and the
Far East.

Before the subcommittee left Washington we held a
series of preliminary hearings on the information pro-
grams of the United States. We expect to hold additional
hearings after we return to the States.

I am especially interested in Germany and the type
of information program it would be proper for the
United States to carry on after the contractual agree-
ments come into effect and I will be talking to a num-
ber of individuals here about this.

The policies of the United States, free Germany and
the free countries of western Europe are solidly ded-
icated to the maintenance of peace and freedom. While
an information program can be no better than the pol-
icies of the government whose views it seeks to interpret
and support, it can be as good as those policies. I hope
that this study will produce recommendations which will
help make the American information program as good
as the policies the free nations jointly support.

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 14 ---
RIAS under Eastern Fire

EAST’ COMMUNIST fear of RIAS is driving Soviet
Zone authorities to hysterical lengths in their efforts
to nullify the effects of truth broadcasts by the US
sponsored radio station in Berlin.

A special study, completed by Berlin Element, HICOG,
in mid-November, indicated that the Soviet Zone’s Com-
munist Party (SED) campaign against RIAS is con-
tinuing on a massive scale. Newspapers and periodicals
beat the drums almost daily in a concerted attempt to
wean East Zone residents from the practice of RIAS-
listening.

Persons apprehended in the act of listening to the
US-sponsored radio are variously described as saboteurs
of the regime, agents of the Western monopoly cap-
italism, warmongers and mentally deranged people.

Penalties for those caught listening to RIAS programs
range from discharge from jobs to officially-sponsored
neighborhood boycotts. If a RIAS-tuned radio is turned
up so loud that it can be heard by persons other than
the owner, jail sentences up to four or five years may
be passed against the offending owner for propaganda
activity.

The charges brought against “agents” and “saboteurs”
in Soviet Zone courts nearly always include an accusa-
tion that the defendant “listened to RIAS.”

T= PRESS campaign against RIAS-listening is
directed at people in all walks of life, according to the
study. It is aimed at eliminating RIAS’s influence in all
its forms among school, church, party, professional, labor
and a long list of other groups. Cafes, restaurants and
other public places where radios have been tuned in to
RIAS programs are special targets of the campaign.

In an article in Die Freiheit, Soviet Zone daily pub-
lished in Halle, the charge was made that “a number of
RIAS listerners among us have fallen victim to pro-
paganda and defamation reports . . . Cafe-owner Sack,
in Koetzschau, is a busy representative of this sort.
Youth are his special victims: along with enough alcohol,
he drops poison from RIAS’ kitchen into them. Among
them are even some youngsters not permitted to be
served alcohol.

“The residents of Koetzschau ought to intervene
energetically,” Die Freiheit warned, “and give this RIAS
agent something to remember. Likewise, the county
committee of the National Front ought to take the matter
up seriously in a meeting of the residents.”

The Freies Wort sponsored by a Soviet Zone labor
organization, noted in its Oct. 11 issue that certain East
Zone organizations and groups had been listening to
RIAS en masse. The second party conference of the SED,

DECEMBER 1952

the paper said, “learned of the almost incredible case of
the worker and farmer faculty of the University of
Rostock, which carried on joint listening to the West
Berlin station RIAS.”

EADLINES over East press stories concerning RIAS

reflect the Communist fear of the truth. “Only a Fool
Is Going to Listen to the War Propaganda of the Plague-
Radio RIAS,” said Die Freiheit in a recent issue. The
same paper headlined another anti-RIAS article, “West
Berlin, Headquarters of Spy- and Terror-Activity,” and
the Zwickau Freie Presse carried a two-page spread
under the heading, “Drive the Murderers out of our
House.”

“From ‘Hits of the Week’ into the Spy Net” was the
headline carried by BZ am Abend, daily paper published
in East Berlin, over an article alleging that RIAS cor-
rupted a West Berlin youth with jazz.

Soviet Zone officials make every effort to discredit
RIAS, the US study showed. In some cases, according
to a report from Brandenburg, the Soviet-sponsored
government of the East Zone is “willing to spend money
to prove that RIAS lies.”

“On Oct. 2,” the report said, “the new schedules for
the trolley-car service on the Koenigswusterhausen
stretch were posted, showing an interval of 40 minutes
between trains. The schedules were suddenly removed
and on Oct. 4 new ones were posted, showing the old
interval of 20 minutes between trains.” RIAS had an-
nounced that traffic was to be reduced. The report added
that the same thing happened on the Velten section of
the line.

The same Brandenburg source declared that, “We
owe it to RIAS that bread rationing has not yet been
introduced. Now they have begun quietly baking darker
bread, naturally without lowering the price. What little
flour is available is also darker.”

HE CURRENT Communist drive to discredit RIAS

began early this year, when Gerhart Eisler, Soviet
Zone propaganda chief, delivered a speech excoriating
the West Berlin station for spreading lies.

In June and July the campaign reached its high point
in a widespread “letters to the editor” competition on
the subject whether RIAS-listening should or should not
be outlawed.

Readers’ opinions, expressed in a straem of “sponta-
neous” letters to newspapers, were divided. A handful
maintained that RIAS-listening should not be prohibited.
Most of the letters, however, either called for outright
and immediate prohibition of RIAS-listening or said
that it was not worth going to such lengths to make the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
practice illegal since “no upright German will listen to
this Ami station anyway.”

In an article carried in the Communist youth organ
Junge Generation in June, Mr. Eisler again attacked
RIAS-listening. The article, picked up subseqently by
other papers, including the East Berlin daily Der Morgen,
claimed that RIAS was sponsored by the US Defense
Department and was operated by espionage and prop-
aganda officers.

The article sought to prove that RIAS sugar-coated
propaganda with jazz, sporting news, popular music and
“even serious music” and comedy programs to poison
German listerners with its war propaganda and tempt
gullible members of the radio audience to commit acts
of sabotage. RIAS music programs were compared to
the flute-playing of the Pied Piper of Hamlin.

“Our German youth and young women are, however,
no mice and rats .. .,” the article said. It went on to
portray the fight against RIAS as the “patriotic task”
of all Germans, an obligation inseparable from the “holy
duty to defend our German homeland.” It also attacked
those who claim they have to listen to RIAS in order
to be in a position to form an unbiased ‘opinion.

“One has to ask such as these what kind of an opinion
it’s supposed to be if listening to the American war-
station is necessary in its formation,” the article said.

UMEROUS cases of disillusionment have been cited

by Eastern papers to prove the Communist charge
that listening to RIAS’ seductive broadcasts leads in-
nocent listeners to commit crime and fall into error of
other kinds.

The 1,000th heifer to be shipped from the United States
to Germany by the Heifer-Project Committee in coope-
ration with CARE arrived in Bremen Nov. 4. The young
cattle are donated by American farmers to refugee
farmers in Germany and deliveries are made by the
committee. Greeting the heifer on its arrival are (left
to right): Roy Schmid, chairman of the Heifer-Project
Committee in Germany; Johannes Waschkies, chairman
of the German Refugee Farmers’ Association, and Erich
Oelzen, representing the Bremen senator for agriculture
and German welfare organizations. (photo by W. Pilzecker
from Information Office, American Consulate General, Bremen)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Nachtexpress of June 24 carried a story detailing
how a poor, ignorant farmer who listened to RIAS fled
the Soviet Zone with his family, lived in squalor in the
Federal Republic for a while, and then returned to the
Soviet Zone “Republic” and a bright future.

Under the headline “Crimes Which RIAS Organized,”
the Freiheit of June 28 told how a certain Jakob Adams
was transformed in a short period from a simple RIAS-
listener into an agent in the “service of the American
warmongers.”

Two alleged murderers who were brought to justice
for the “bestial” killing of an East Zone “patriot” were
accused in another Eastern news item of “continually
propagating inflammatory RIAS reports” before their
arrest and conviction.

Other aspects of the hate-RIAS campaign include the
following:
Factories and other places where Commiunist
groups and organizations take the lead in bringing

the “truth” about RIAS before their compatriots are
publicly lionized in the press.

Letters condemning RIAS are carried regularly
in “Letters to the Editors” columns. In one such letter
a reader related that he asked someone in a line of
people standing in front of an HO (East German
state-owned retail trade enterprise) store what was
on sale. “I can’t say,” was the answer. The reader
concluded that the person was a victim of RIAS-
originated canards which strive to make listeners
believe that times are bad in the Soviet Zone, and
that this line of thinking had led the “victim” to
line up in the hope that scarce commodities were
going on sale.

RIAS is repeatedly attacked as a leading “enemy
of the democratic order,” as an instigator of public
disturbances, as the “sower of popular fear,” etc.

1HE ACTUAL consensus among East Zone residents

regarding RIAS is reported daily to Berlin officials as-
signed to receiving and caring for refugees. Nearly all
persons fleeing Communist terror and oppression say
that RIAS is a continuing source of hope and truth for
the captive peoples in the East.

A typical opinion was contained in a letter from a
refugee who fled to western Germany. “I have been in
the Federal Republic for two weeks,” the writer said.
“Before that I was a resident of the DDR.* At the mo-
ment unfortunately, we have no radio, so I cannot hear
RIAS. In the East Zone it was my one and all, for it was
instructive, it was entertaining, and above all it pre-
served my faith in freedom.”

“I can tell you,” the writer went on, “that RIAS is
popular in the East Zone and is heard in almost every
household. For people living behind the Iron Curtain,
constantly terrorized and politically burdened, it is
pleasure and relaxation to hear the interesting and in-
formative programs of RIAS. I want to thank RIAS in
the name of more than 16 million Germans behind the
Iron Curtain for its blessed work.” + END

‘abbreviation of local title for area of Soviet Zone’s German
ruling organization.

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 16 ---
At Bergen-Belsen, site of the Nazi concentration camp on the Lueneburg Heath midway between
Hamburg and Hanover, was dedicated Nov. 30 a monument to the memory of the millions of victims
of the National Socialist totalitarianism. In the presence of a large assemblage including many Ger-
man and foreign. dignitaries, German Federal Republic President Theodor Heuss delivered the ded-
icatory address. Below is printed a translation of the text as published Dec. 6 in Die Neue Zeitung.

Brave towards Truth

Translation of Address

by Prof. Theodor Heuss

President of the Federal Republic of Germany

HEN I WAS asked to speak at this time, at this

Place and on this occasion, I accepted without hesi-
tation. A refusal or evasive answer would have been
tantamount to cowardice, and we Germans, it seems
to me, want and have to be brave in the face of the
truth, the more so at a place which has been defamed
by the excesses of human cowardice. For the brute force
of carbines, pistols, and whips is, in the last analysis,
always cowardly as it parades, well fed, threatening
and ruthless, among poverty, disease and hunger.

Whoever speaks here as a German must feel free
enough to recognize the full cruelty of the crimes. com-
mited at this very place by Germans. It would be insult-
ing for a German speaker to belittle or extenuate these
crimes or, even more so, to justify them with a mistaken
application of raison d’etat.

No I WANT to say something that will perhaps

surprise many of you, but I think you will believe
me, while many of those who will hear me on the radio
will not: The first time I heard the word Belsen was in
the spring of 1945 over BBC, and I know it happened
the same way to many thousands in this country. We
knew—or at least I knew—names like Dachau, Buchen-
wald, Oranienburg, names of places originally of happy
memory, which had been smeared. Friends and relatives
had been there and had told of their fates there. Then,
rather early, we heard the words Theresienstadt and
Ravensbrueck. Some unhappy day I heard the word
Mauthausen, where my old friend Otto Hirsch, the noble
and eminent head of the German Congress of Jews, had
been “liquidated”. I heard this word from his widow,
whom I tried to assist and advise. Belsen was missing
in this catalogue of terror and shame, and so was
Auschwitz.

Please do not take this remark as designed to comfort
those who love to say: we did not know anything about
it whatsoever. No, we did know about those things.
From the letters of Protestant and Catholic bishops, who
somehow engineered secret ways of communication we
knew about the systematic assassination of the inmates
of German asylums. This government, to which human
sentiment was only ridiculous and cost-increasing, tried

DECEMBER 1952

to make tabula rasa—a clean table, but it was stained
with blood and ashes. Who cared? Our imagination,
stemming as it did from civil and Christian traditions,
blooded mass annihilation.

Belsen and this monument are symbolical of an histor-
ical fate. It is the fate of the sons and daughters of other
nations, of German and foreign Jews and of the Ger-
mans as a nation, not only of those who were buried
so unceremoniously in this soil.

KNOW THERE are people who think: Was this monu-

ment necessary? Would it not have been better to let
furrows run here and let the mercy of ever rejuve-
nating fertility condone what has happened? Maybe
centuries later this monument will attach a vague legend
of shockingly cruel events to this place. Well, this is
certainly worth pondering about, and there is no want
of arguments that this obelisk may become a needle to
break open the wounds which the course of time should
heal.

Let us talk about that in frankness. The nations whose
sons and daughters have been buried in these mass
graves mourn them, especially the Jews whom Hitler
more or less forced to think of themselves as a nation.
They can and will never forget what has been done to
them. The Germans on the other hand, must not forget
what was done during these shameful years by their
nationals.

Now I will hear the counter-argument: And what
about the others? Did you never hear of the internment
camps of 1945 and 1946, of the injustice committed there?
Did you never hear of the many victims of foreign im-
prisonment, of the miseries caused by a formalistic and
cruel justice, under which many Germans still suffer?
Do you not know that mistreatment and mass dieing in
camps still exist in the Soviet Zone, at Torgau, Wald-
heim, Bautzen? Only the coats of arms have been
changed there? :

I do know about these things and I have never hes-
itated to speak up. But referring to the injustice and
brutality of others is a way of evading for the morally
poor, which you can find among all the nations, among

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Americans as well as among Germans, among French-
men and so on. No nation is better than the other and
there are men of various qualities among each. America
is not “God’s own country,” and the harmless philos-
opher .Emanuel Geibel caused only nonsense with his
word that “the world will be cured by the German
character.”

OW, WERE the Jews the “elected people”’—certainly

not elected for misery and torture? It seems to me
that a classification of virtue attributed by one nation
to another is a pernicious and banal affair. It imperils
the clear and decent sense of patriotism which is inherent
to anyone who understands history, which may lend
self-confidence and pride to him, but must not lead him
into the twilight of a hypocrital arrogance. Force and
cruelty are not to be used for reciprocal compensation.
With force and cruelty goes the danger of sub-conscious
accumulation which is apt to make them the worst
burden in the life of an individual, or of entire nations.
All nations have a reserve pool of irresponsibles longing
for revenge, or of publications aiming at that purpose,
in case the revenge criers should become tired.

EMBERS OF many nations have been laid to rest

here. The monument features inscriptions in many
languages, and thus is a document of the tragic twists
of European fate. Lying here are also many German
victims of terror, and how many rest at the edges of
other camps? But it is symbolical that Nachum Goldman
spoke here for all the victims. Here in Belsen all Jews
within reach were to be starved to death or left to
disease and plague.

Goldman spoke of the thornful road the Jewish people
have traveled, and of their strength which defied all
catastrophes of history. Certainly the years between
1933 and 1945 were their worst epoch. But they rep-
resented a new element in Jewish history. Goldman said
that the past has witnessed many persecutions of Jews.
But they were either offsprings of religious fanatism
or of economic and social competition.

There was no element of religious fanatism in the
events after 1933. To those who despised the sacred
scripts of the Old and New Testaments, to those enemies
of any religious tie, metaphysical problems were com-
pletely foreign. Nor were economic motives a sufficient
justification.

No, these were not the only reasons. The upsurge of a
biological naturalism of semi-education led to almost
automatic murdering without even the slightest sem-
blence of moral bounds. This very fact is the greatest
shame attached to the period of 1933 to 1945. And we
are ashamed that this occurred in the history of our
nation, which produced men like Lessing and Kant,
Schiller and Goethe. Nobody, absolutely no one, will
relieve us from that shame.

My friend Albert Schweitzer headlined his cultural-
ethical doctrine with the word “Reverence for life.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

I think it is a true’ formula, cruelly paradoxical though
it may sound at a place were it was disregarded thous-
ands of times. But does it not need a supplement:
“Reverence for death”?

ET ME TELL you a little story, which may displease

many Jews and many non-Jews alike. People from
both parties will say: this is out of place here. In World
War I 12,000 young people of Jewish faith died for the
cause of their country—Germany. At the soldiers’
monument in my home town, the names of Jews were
inscribed along with those of other soldiers killed in
action. After 1933 the local Nazi Party leader ordered
the Jewish names erased and substituted some battle
names for them. I do’ not mention this because some
friends of mine were erased too. I mention it, because
it was the gravest shock to me to see that reverence for
death, for a soldier’s death in action, had disappeared
at a time when new wars were being planned.

A few years later death returned in the most horrible
ways. Here, too, at Belsen, the scourge of death ruled
with hunger and disease as helpers. Cynics, rude follows
may perhaps say:'the majority were only Jews, Poles,
Russians, Frenchmen, Belgians, Norwegians, Greeks, and
so on. Only? They were human beings like you and me,
they had their parents, their children, their husbands
and wives! The pictures of the survivors are the most
apalling documents.

To this stretch of country the war was over in April,
1945. But death continued as a consequence of hunger
and plague. British doctors lost their lives in fighting it.
Outstanding Jewish leaders have asked me recently to
say a word, too, about what happened later, about what
German doctors and nurses did in the spring and sum-
mer of 1945 to save these doomed victims. I did not know
about it. But I have heard since that, in the face of
such misery, the willingness to help grew to the point
of self sacrifice, determined not to fail in this Christian,
brotherly mission to help. I am grateful for having been
told of this, and for the request to mention it here. It
is a consolation to see that the right and good was
upheld.

HE BRITISH state commisioner has mentioned

Rousseau. Rousseau started one of his books with
the self-evident statement that “Man is good.” Oh, we
have learned that the world is more complicated than
the theories of moralist-philosophers. But we know this,
too: Man—mankind—is an abstract term, result of a
statistical compilation; but humanity is a sum of individ-
ual relationships with other people, of whatever creed,
race or social standing they may be.

Here stands the obelisk, here stands the wall with its
multi-lingual inscriptions. They are of stone, only cold
stone. But saxa loquntur, stones can talk. It will be up
to the individual, it will be up to you to understand their
particular language, for your own sake, and for the sake
of all of us. +END

DECEMBER 1953

--- Page 18 ---
American, German
Pupils Exchange
Visit in Stuttgart

By Millard Harmon*

AN EXCHANGE visitation program between German
and American classrooms for the current school year
was inaugurated Nov. 28 at Stuttgart American School.
This was part of a program being sponsored for Amer-
ican schools in the USAREUR area.

At the Stuttgart gathering 42 pupils from the “sev-
enth grade” in Kornwestheim visited the fifth and sixth
grade class of American School. The German children
had been studying English for more than two years. In-
strumental in planning the visit was Mrs. R. C. Witt-
mann, home room mother of the fifth and sixth grade
class. A classroom in the new wing of the Stuttgart
school was used for the get-together. Chairs were placed
beside each of the regular desks so that each American
child felt the responsibility of having a personal guest.

Two German songs, led by Miss Kuder of the Stutt-
gart American School, were sung, and a reply was given

*Mr. Harmon ts a teacher at the American School in Stuttgart.
He is on leave-of-absence from the Newton (Mass.) Public
Schools.

Two photos on this page show meeting of German and American pupils at first get-together in Stuttgart Nov. 28.

in two American songs sung by the guests — “Oh, Su-
sanna” and “Clementine.”

HE AMERICAN classroom procedure was explained

by the teacher, followed by an English reading lesson
in which both classes participated. Refreshments were
served under the direction of the home room mother,
and free visual aids were shared. Each guest was pre-
sented a small decorated writing tablet.

Arousing comment among the German guests was a
suggestion box at the back of the room carrying the cap-
tion “Making Our School Better.” It was explained that
this box was opened every week or two and the sug-
gestions considered. They were also interested in how
American industries were able to supply educational
aids which were available in the classroom free of
charge.

The meeting of the two classes was covered by report-
ers and photographers from both the American and
German press.

--- Page 19 ---
Setting table for get-together party.

Dressing Jens for day’s activities.

In flower garden with Mrs. Schwarting.

American Farm

A 22-year-old farm girl from Pepperell, Mass., learned this summer how
the German farm girls live and work in Lower Saxony, a state in north-
western Germany.

Evelyn Yuetter, one of five young Americans who were brought to Ger-
many under the 4-H Club/Mutual Security Agency-sponsored Farm Youth
Exchange program, chose the farm of Mrs. Hilde Schwarting in Ofen, near
Oldenburg, for the site of her four-week experiment.

Upon her arrival in the small village of Ofen Miss Yuetter was cordially
welcomed by the Schwarting family as well as by employees of the farm.
Due to her pleasant personality and her readiness to do all kinds of work
she found it rather easy to become accustomed to her new surroundings.

In the course of her daily work in the kitchen, the stables and the garden
she has become well acquainted with the farm routine, thereby making the
most of the opportunity given to her. She hoped this opportunity would
bring her a better understanding of the attitudes of rural people in other
parts of the world.

View of Schwarting farmhouse and barns.

--- Page 20 ---
Visiting with Brigitte Vogt.

Girl in Germany

Twenty-two countries cooperated with the United States in the 1952 sum-
mer program of international farm youth exchange. Begun in 1948, the ex-
change was first carried out with a few European countries, but included in
1952 countries in Latin America, the Near and Far East, South Pacific and
Africa. The program in the United States was conducted by the National
4-H Club Foundation and the Cooperative Extension Service of the US De-
partment of Agriculture and the land-grant colleges. Also cooperating were
the Department of State, the Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations and
other government agencies.

Miss Brigitte Vogt, representative of the Chamber of Agriculture in
Oldenburg and former German rural exchangee to the United States fre-
quently visited Miss Yuetter, introduced her to the girls of the local agricul-
tural school and assisted in making the American guest feel at home.

Miss Yuetter left the Schwarting farm at the end of October, to go back
to her work in the 4-H Club in Massachusetts.

(Photographs on these pages were taken by Leonhard Kull, Bremen, for the In-
formation Office. Public Affairs Section, American Consulate General, Bremen.)

Visiting class at agricultural school.

re ge:

Preparing food for farm animals.
Trying out food-crushing machine.

--- Page 21 ---
Student Purge in Soviet Zone

TUDENTS UNSYMPATHETIC to the Soviet-spon-

sored regime in eastern Germany are being expelled
from East Zone universities under a continuing program
to purge higher schools of “politically unreliable” ele-
ments.

The recent expulsion of several hundred students from
the Communist-controlled Humboldt University in East
Berlin was a major step in the purge, stated announce-
ment Nov. 20 by educational officials on Berlin Element,
HICOG.

The zone-wide wave of expulsions began at the
universities of Leipzig and Halle last June, and has
resulted in the expulsion of 200-300 students from each
Soviet Zone university during the summer and autumn.
The Humboldt University is the last to carry out its
purge.

It is expected that special efforts will be made to
enable as many as possible of the expellees fleeing to
West Berlin to pursue their studies at the Free Univer-
sity or West German universities.

Expulsions have been heaviest in the theological and
medical faculties, where opposition to the Soviet Zone
regime is particularly strong.

HILE THE usual reason given by East Zone author-

ities for expulsion was “unsatisfactory academic
achievement,” articles in Soviet Zone newspapers and
student publications showed that the real motive is doubt
concerning the students’ party-line loyalty.

Forum, the student organ of the Central Committee
of the Communist Youth organization (FDJ), warned
its readers Oct. 25 that “the effort toward good discipline
and good achievement is not to be separated from the
struggle against the enemies of our reconstruction, who
try to infiltrate our highest centers of education. Such
elements have recently been purged, but that fact must
not lead to decreased vigilance.”

Soviet Zone local newspapers follow the same line.
On Oct. 18, Halle’s Freiheit carried an article by Eber-
hard Stein which concluded, “The spy trials of former
students of the Martin Luther University (Halle) show
that the enemy seeks particularly to infiltrate the uni-
versities ... The party organization must ... keep
these centers of learning free of all spy packs.”

Under the headline, “We Tolerate No Banditry in our
Schools,” Chemnitz’s Volksstimme complained Oct. 1
of “enemy activities in the Ernst von Harnack High
School in Merseburg.” While approving the expulsion of
the “trouble-makers,” the article contained a _ thinly
veiled threat against the faculty.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Our teachers must recognize,” said Volksstimme
“that it is not compatible with the outstanding achieve-
ments of the workers in factories and on the land when
they show even a hint of a conciliatory attitude toward
any evidence of enemy ideology in our schools.”

Newspaper attacks on individual students have been
frequent. Thus, on July 7, Forum named and condemned
several students.of the university of Halle for such
“crimes” as criticism of “the democratic press of the
DDR.” Expulsion of these students was demanded.

In some cases, East Zone students have been exposed
to penalties much more severe than expulsion. The
Freiheit reported June 28 the conviction of five university
students on charges of “acts of diversion and incite-
ment to boycott of the DDR authorities” and their sen-
tencing to prison terms up to 12 years. Similar trials
have resulted in prison sentences for more than 300
Soviet Zone students.

NN THE LAST few months, the opposition of many

students to the sudden Soviet demand for support of
the “National Armed Forces” has caused concern among
the East Zone authorities. Leipziger Volkszeitung re-
ported unhappily July 16 from a meeting of FDJ mem-
bers of the student body of the Leipzig Music Con-
servatory that “even a superficial observer could not
fail to see that pacific tendencies dominated.” Volks-
zeitung approved the expressed intention of the FDJ
leadership to expell the leading “pacifists” as unfit to
continue their music studies.

To judge from the Soviet Zone press and student
publications, not even the smallest formal vestige of
academic freedom can be tolerated at the “progressive”
Soviet Zone universities. Thus, in an article of Nov. 15,
the FDJ student organ Forum complained under a
headline “We Tolerate No Slackers” that “a relatively
large number of third-year students are against study
according to plan. They try to choose their courses
arbitrarily, according to their own desires.”

The official conclusion drawn by the Soviet Zone
authorities from the “necessity” of purging hundreds of
students is expressed in the Leipziger Volkszeitung
Oct. 14. The conclusion is that “work in the ideological
field has not been sufficiently active.”

In the same article the goal of this ideological activity
was stated: “The chief task of our universities is the
training of a leadership cadre. The task is to train our
students, who in large part come from the working class,
to be true patriots, qualified specialists and Marxist-
Leninists.” +END

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 22 ---
Soviet Zone Adulation for Soviet Union

AST GERMAN press adulation of anything and
everything connected with the Soviet Union has
reached a high point in recent weeks.

Soviet Zone papers, which are all under state control,
are required to devote increasing space to fulsome
eulogies of the “Soviet paradise” no matter how ridi-
culous these articles appear in the eyes of readers, ac-
cording to a survey made in November by the Public
Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG. The survey
also pointed out that since Soviet Zone newspaper
readers include persons who have had a chance to
observe the way of life of Soviet occupation troops
since 1945, as well as many former German soldiers
who saw conditions in Russia at first hand during the
war, these absurd obligatory praises of the Soviet way
of life are of doubtful propaganda value.

Members of Soviet Zone delegations visiting the Soviet
Union are called upon to describe their impressions in
terms formerly reserved for descriptions of the promised
land. In Der Ruf (Schwerin, Sept. 4), a German visitor
to Moscow described how on his first day in the city
he left his “magnificent bed” in a “magnificent hotel”
at 5 a. m., so great was his impatience to see the city.

In the “magnificent subway,” his account went on,
“we found all our expectations exceeded marble
everywhere ... We were surrounded by magnificent
marble.” At dinner, “there were five courses and plenty
to drink . . . We lived as if in a fairytale.”

NOTHER visitor, writing in Der Ruf (Sept. 11)

stated: “What impressed us everywhere was the per-
fect cleanliness. Even the streets in Moscow are always
immaculate.”

The same paper (Sept. 5) explained the secret of the
Soviet architectural success. In addition to “marble
everywhere,” it said, “The Soviets build on the principle
of socialist realism, while drawing from the classical
cultural heritage, combining it with national form and
giving it socialist content.”

The daily life of Soviet citizens as described in Soviet
Zone newspapers differs considerably from the accounts
of foreign observers who visited Russia during and after
the war. For example, Neues Deutschland (Berlin,
Nov. 19) presented an article entitled “Life of a Lenin-
grad Worker's Family.”

“In conversations about life in the Soviet Union, the
question often comes up: how does the average citizen
live?” the paper said. “Certain British and American
newspapers have started the fairy story that the Soviet
citizen is badly off, and that it is even harder for him
to live on his income than for a worker in England or
America.”

To counter this supposed error, the reporter described
a visit to three “typical” Leningrad workers. At the first

DECEMBER 1952

stop, he said, “I was in luck, Makarow (the worker) was
at home. He was watching a television program with his
children.” The second worker “owns a fine library, in-
cluding a complete collection of all the classical works.”
At the apartment of the third worker, “Lida, the little
girl, was sitting at the piano, and the older daughter,
Walerija, was standing in front of the mirror, trying on
a new hat.” The third worker then revealed that he
was on the verge of buying a television set and a new
car.

Freiheit (Halle, Nov. 7) added. “In the Soviet Unibdn
... the acquisition of a fur coat is nothing at all unu-
sual, even for a worker. Sable, mink, beaver, persian
lamb and silver fox are available.”

NFORTUNATELY for Soviet Zone propagandists this

view of conditions in the Soviet Union is not con-
firmed by any of the non-Communist observers who
have visited the Soviet Union since the war.

Life in the Soviet Union quite naturally produces
superior beings, according to the Soviet Zone press. In
countless articles, the “Soviet man” is elevated to a
“master race” pedestal, on which, according to the
HICOG survey, he’ must. look rather odd to East Zone
Germans who have had personal dealings with Soviet
citicens.

Writing about the Stalinist technique for producing
the “Soviet man”, the East Zone’s Junge Welt (Berlin,
Sept. 10) in a book review related, “everything has a
positive effect on them (Soviet youth); the whole magni-
ficent Soviet world around them educates them to be
noble human beings. Their friends are the same: good,
courageous and clever.” Leipziger Volkszeitung (Leipzig.
Nov. 19) in an article, “Moscow Mosaic,” substantiated
this claim to nobility by pointing out that the people of
Moscow do not crowd or jostle on buses and street cars
and never throw litter in the street.

Das Volk (Weimar, Sept. 6) gave a touching description
of family life in the Soviet Union. “As the Moscow
machinist Ivan Ivanowitsch Dworin comes home from
his work at the auto plant, his daughter Natascha runs
excitedly to meet him. ‘Daddy, have you read it already?’
she cries, and presses into his hand a copy of the
‘plans of the sixth party congress for the fifth five-
year plan’.”

N THE FIELDS of technology and industrial develop-

ment in which Germany has always played a leading
role, no praise is wasted on German accomplishments,
yet none appears to be too lavish for Soviet-German
newspapers to apply to Soviet achievements.

Soviet farm machinery is “the best in the world.”
The appearance of a Soviet mining machine, a mechani-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
cal coalbreaker called Donbass I, caused storms of
enthusiasm among the Zwickau miners, according to
Taegliche Rundschau (Berlin, Oct. 9). One miner, Otto
Werner, according to the reported judgment of the others,
is “in, love with it as if it were a young girl.”

No deviation from the dogma of Soviet superiority is
permitted in the East Zone press. In Freiheit (Halle,
Oct. 25) under the remarkable headline “Objectivity
Helps the Enemy” E. Jeschonnek complained about an
article on ditch-digging machines in the magazine Die
Technik which, according to Jeschonnek, “by its long,
detailed account of a new type of British ditch-digger
. .. deliberately or uncounsciously gave many readers
the false impression . . . that the English ditch-digger is
better than the Soviet E Sch 14°65.”

That such a contretemps could occur is for Jeschonnek
proof “how deep the poison of objectivity has pen-
etrated the ranks of the party members at the univer-
sity.” To counter this invidious influence, Jeschonnek
called for “complete partisanship in technology,” which
evidently means calling Soviet ditch-diggers better than
British, whether they are or not.

HE OFT-LAUDED “new methods” devised by the

Soviet innovators are sometimes of startling sim-
plicity. The “Builow method” for increasing production
in weaving, for example, described in Taegliche Rund-
schau (Oct. 25) consists of substituting for a system in
which each weaver must replenish his own loom, carry-
out occasional repairs and keep written records, a system
providing a full-time repairman, a full-time office clerk
and a crew of replenishers, this is called, “planned divi-
sion of labor as applied to the duties of weavers.”

Even more impressive is the method of increasing
milk yield and speeding up milking devised by three-
time winner of the Lenin order, Maria Sawtschenko.
Saechsische Zeitung (Dresden, Oct. 27) described the
process as follows: “She got another girl to help her
milk, so that each cow was milked simultaneously by
two persons.”

The influence of Soviet culture is also a favorite target
for adulation by the Soviet Zone press. A poem by Max
Zimmering in Deutschlands Stimme (Berlin, Nov. 16)
contained inter alia the following couplets:

Eine Mutter sah ich einen Brotlaib brechen

(I saw a mother break some bread in twain,)
und ich hoerte sie von Josef Stalin sprechen,
(and I heard her speak of Joseph Stalin . . .)
dass die Voelker nicht in Barbarei versanken,
(that the world sank not in barbarism rank,)
dafuer muessen wir Genossen Stalin danken.
(we must give Comrade Stalin our thanks.)

IKE ALL OTHER workers, Soviet Zone authors are
obliged to fulfill their quota after the Soviet model.
In Junge Welt (Sept. 3) author Bernhard Seeger pro-
mised in the coming year to produce “a cantate about

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

German-Soviet friendship,” “a longer poem about the
founding of production cooperatives in the villages,”
and a “novel about a young teacher” which will show
“the victory of the progressive forces in the village class
struggle.”

Seeger promised further to keep the resolutions of the
second party-congress constantly in mind and concluded
“I know that the writer in this great period of our
beloved republic must be more than ever ‘an engineer
of the human soul’.”

The theme of German-Soviet friendship is apparently
a compulsory one for Soviet Zone writers, amounting to
an idee fixe in all comment by writers on their work.
In issue 7 of the monthly Aufbau (Berlin) Stephan
Hermlin attempted an analysis. “What expresses Soviet-
German friendship?” he asked.

The answer was: “One recalls the bread which the
soldiers of the Red army distributed in freshly liberated
Berlin...”

Hermlin continued, “But Soviet-German friendship is
more than that, because what the Soviet Union gave us
and is giving us is more. What is it? It is hard to express.
I can only say it thus: The Soviet Union gave me my
whole country, including that which I am today.”

IHE REQUIRED pattern or German love for the

Soviet fatherland is formulated strikingly by Volks-
stimme (Chemnitz, Nov. 4) as follows: “Only he who
loves the Soviet Union and the great Stalin about all
else, he alone can love his own nation truly.” Various
comments about the month of German-Soviet friendship,
however, showed that this article of faith has not yet
been properly accepted by the East Zone population.
Thus, Leipziger Volkszeitung (Sept. 28), editorialized,
“It is a question of making friendship with the Soviet
Union a concern of the whole population, of every
individual.”

An indication of the obligation that this “friendship”
entails is provided by Volksstimme (Oct. 24) in a report
on a “voluntary assignment” undertaken by the workers
of a people’s-owned factory: “We ... promise to cover
the costs of planning and constructing a Soviet monu-
ment by voluntary common effort, in that we will per-
form the necessary overtime work in collective special
shifts.”

NE SHINING example of a person who has rec-

ognized his duty is, according to Saechsische Zeitung
(Dresden, Sept. 3) the master milker Erwin Schulz of the
people’s farm Pillnitz. He was quoted as saying, “It is
up to us to justify the constant proofs of trust given us
by the Soviet Union.”

“I intend to contribute to this by the most careful
selection of breeding animals . . .” the writer continued.
“By training future milkers I hope to assist in assuring
that in the future we will have the necessary specialists
to deal with the coming important tasks.” +END

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 24 ---
Kidnaping of Dr.Walter Linse

The following is a translation of a press statement
made in Berlin on Nov. 13 by Dr. Johannes Stumm, Ber-
lin’s police president, concerning the kidnaping of Dr.
Walter Linse, a resident of the American sector.

THOROUGH and widespread investigation covering

a period of four months following the kidnaping of
Dr. Walter Linse has resulted in the identification of
four East Berlin professional criminals who stand ac-
cused of assaulting and abducting Dr. Linse from in
front of his home in West Berlin on July 8, 1952.

This sweeping inquiry, conducted by scores of Berlin’s
most skillful police officers, represents a combination of
exhaustive effort, the study of hundreds of leads and
the application of all modern police methods. The in-
vestigation had disclosed not only the names of the four
principal kidnapers but also of 13 other hand-picked and
professional outlaws and gangsters who played im-
portant roles in one of the most brazen and repugnant
crimes in the history of Berlin.

The four East Berliners who had been convicted pre-
viously of charges of murder, burglaries, embezzlement
and safecracking are:

Harry Liedtke, 22, whose most recent address is 17
Barnim Street, Berlin-Friedrichshain.

Erwin Knispel, 50, who has many addresses in East
Berlin.

Herbert Nowak, 27, whose most recent address was
Heidenfeld Street, Berlin-Friedrichshain, near the Zen-
tralviehhof.

Josef Dehnert, 22, who has changed his address fre-
quently in East Berlin.

THESE FOUR men are identified as part of a crim-

inally organized and criminally subsidized ring of
kidnapers approved, sponsored and directed by the DDR*
Ministry for State Security which has become widely
known as the dread MSS, which not only is modeled
after the MGB, the Ministry of State Security of the
Soviet Union, but is an integral, thriving organ of the
Russian police state.

The relentless investigation into the abduction of Dr.
Linse from in front of his home in Gerichts Street, Ber-
lin Lichterfelde, has disclosed the heinous methods which
the MSS employs in organizing its syndicate of kid-
napers. By the very nature of its criminal mission the

*DDR are initials of the name applied in the Soviet Zone
to its German governmental regime.

DECEMBER 1952

21

MSS is compelled to rely completely upon murderers,
dope abdicts, highly trained burglars and black market
operators. The MSS’s masters even enlist prostitutes of
all ages to assist them in their outlawed operations in
West Berlin.

The MSS, which has been established only for a rela-
tively short time, adopted a system of recruitment which
is not particularly new in the annals of crimes against
decent and law-abiding citizens, but is definitely effec-
tive. For example, the MSS leaders visit criminals in
their prison cells and make nefarious deals with them.
It operates something like this: A gangster may be
serving a sentence for murder, as in the case of Nowak,
or for 18 separate cases of safecracking, burglary, and
other felonies, as in the case of Knispel, will be ap-
proached by an MSS stooge who holds out a promise of
a reduced sentence or freedom if the imprisoned crim-
inal agrees to join the kidnapers club. Since these crim-
inals are offered such fine opportunities their answers
to these proposals are obvious.

NCE THESE crooks and killers are let out of prison

to perform even worse crimes, their files and records
are invariably removed from the police and prosecuting
attorney’s files and sometimes destroyed. But sometimes
they are retained by the MSS which holds these records
as a club or threat over the heads of the criminal hire-
lings.

It was under this system that the four East Berlin
bandits were directed to attack and kidnap Dr. Linse.
The execution of the crime was well planned. The habits
and movements of Dr. Linse were studied and reported
in details. There were to be no mistakes, no margin for

=e
PSS

iy

The Linse Case: . . . I therefore trust that you will live
up to the expectations of the great Stalin and do your
duty by kidnaping war mongers and imperialists. —
from Ruhr Nachrichten (Dortmund), November 15.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
error. Every move, every plan, every step, every report,
every observation made by the four principal kidnapers
and their 13 accomplices, whose records are just as bad
as their companions,-constituted a major crime in them-
selves.

The kidnap ring even went so far as to stop a West
Berlin taxicab, driven by Wilhelm Woiziske of 26 Ohlauer
Street, Kreuzberg Borough, Berlin, with the purpose in
mind of removing its KB license plate for transfer to
an MSS sedan which was used in the actual kidnaping.
The taxicab driver was actually kidnaped himself and
locked up in the cellar of the Prenzlauer Berg (borough)
police inspection at 23 Schoenhauser Boulevard. After
the assault and kidnaping of Dr. Linse had been success-
fully concluded, Woiziske was released and retrieved his
taxicab.

HE FOLLOWING is a review of the kidnaping as it
actually happened on July 8, 1952:

At approximately 7:30 on the morning of the above
date Dr. Linse emerged from his home. The kidnapers’
car was parked on Gerichts Street near Drake Street.
Liedtke and Dehnert stepped out of the kidnap car.
Dehnert, who approached Dr. Linse as though to ask
for a light, struck the jurist in the face with a sandbag
blackjack while Liedtke held Linse from behind.

The two culprits then yanked Dr. Linse into the car
and dashed off at high speed with Dr. Linse’s feet
protruding from one of the rear doors of the car. The
driver of a delivery truck, parked nearby, saw the abduc-
tion and pursued the kidnap vehicle. One of the kid-
napers threw several tetrahedral nails onto the street
in a vain attempt to halt the pursuer. Nowak has been
identified as the gangster who fired two shots at the
pursuing vehicle, both of which struck the car but not
the driver.

The kidnap car sped down Drake Street at 59 to 62
miles an hour. When the kidnap car crossed Karwendel
Street the kidnapers pulled Dr. Linse’s legs into the car
and shut the door. At this point one of Dr. Linse’s shoes
fell to the pavement.

The fugitive car then crossed Teltow Canal and then
turned down Diesendorfer Street and Berliner Street to
Schwelmer Street and subsequently roared across the
Soviet Zone border where a zonal barrier had been
raised to accommodate the kidnaper’s vehicle.

T= CRIME from beginning to end was witnessed by
many Berliners. This crime, of which the Soviet
authorities have repeatedly denied knowledge, was aided
and abetted by the following 13 accomplices, all of whom
have criminal records:

Paul Liebig, 38 to 42. This man, an official of the
MSS in charge of the Unsichtbar-Gruppe Wein-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

meister* is the most myterious character of the lot.
It is not even known whether Liebig is his correct
family name, since Fe is commonly known simply
as “Paul.”

Fritz Vahle, alias Paul Schmidt, aged 31, last
known to have lived at 10 Weinmeister Street, Ber-
lin-Mitte. He is assistant to Paul. He is also a.drug
addict and claims to be a physician. In 1946 he'was
tried, convicted and sentenced to three years in
prison in the British Zone for illegally using the
title “Dr.” Later that same year Vahle was declared
to be not completely sane and was committed to a
Schleswig sanatorium for observation. He escaped
May 20, 1947.

Hans Richard Joswig, alias Bauer, aged 30; a man
of many addresses, the most recent of which was 13
Lottum Street, Berlin-Mitte. Joswig, a professional
criminal, is wanted for the theft of $220 and DM 20
committed on August 18, 1950, in Berlin-Steglitz.
Subsequently he was arrested by Soviet Sector
police and later released.

Else Joswig, wife of Hans Joswig, 25 or 26 years
of age.

Kurt Knoblauch, 22 to 23, formerly of Anklamer
Street, Berlin-Mitte, another paid gangster known
to have been held in the Dirkenstrasse prison in
February 1950.

Sonja Ballentin, 23, who has relatives at Rigaer
Street, Berlin-Friedrichshain, Sonja who has lived
with Harry Liedtke at 17 Barnim Street is engaged
to the criminal Liedtke.

Fritz London, 26, last known to reside at 24 Im-
manuelkirch Street, Berlin-Prenzlauer Berg.

Walter Paerschke, personal data unknown but
whose records shows an arrest more than two years
ago by East Sector police in Berlin-Treptow for
stealing an automobile, and a sentence to Barnim
Street prison.

Wladimirowicz Feder, 40 to 45, last known address
Pistorius Street, Berlin-Weissensee.

Siegfried Benter,.26 to 27, of 4 Palisaden Street,
Berlin-Friedrichshain.
Leiser, first name unknown, 35, Pistorius Street,
Berlin-Weissensee.
Skrolek, first name unknown, 30 to 35, brother of
Wladimirowicz Feder. ;
Schura, first name unknown, 35, address unknown.
The West Berlin police have unimpeachable evidence,
that this MSS-sponsored and protected kidnap organiza-
tion is financed by the sale of great quantities of cig-
arettes, coffee and silk stockings on the black market. i

a

These then are the type of people, guarded and supr,
ported by the Soviet-controlled and dominated East Ber-.
lin, who assaulted and kidnaped Dr. Linse. +END

*may be translated as “Underground gang of Wine-Mastef
Street” an

DECEMBER 188%),

--- Page 26 ---
In and Around Germany

German Exchange Program

The first group of 100 prominent
Americans to visit the Federal Re-
public and West-Berlin under the
German Federal Government ex-
change program arrived in Frank-
furt early in September. By invita-
tion of the Federal Government the
visitors arrive in groups of eight to
ten in intervals of approximately
10 days and tour West-Germany for
four weeks to inform themselves on
the conditions in the Federal Re-
public and Berlin. The Americans
invited are eminent in the fields of
culture, science, public and political
life and are assisted by respective
groups in Germany in gathering the
information desired.

The program originated from an
inter-factional decision of the Ger-
man Federal Parliament in October
1951. It was meant as a symbol of
appreciation for the extensive US
assistance and the generous Exchange
program carried through by HICOG.

The German American exchange of
persons program is being organized
by the cultural department of the
foreign office of the Federal Gov-
ernment in conjunction with local
groups in places which are of in-
terest to the American visitors.

Films Being Made in Berlin

Production of HICOG films will
continue in Berlin on an intensified
scale, George B. Templeton, chief of
Film Branch, Information Division,
Office of Public Affairs, announced
Oct. 9. At that time, two films were
being made in Berlin and work was
beginning on others.

The first, “Better Living,” a film
for the Mutual Security Agency, is
a pictorial story in color of this
year’s Berlin Industry Fair. The
second film deals with the refugee
Problem. Miss Virginia Van Up of

DECEMBER 1952

Hollywood is writing the story and
screen, play as her first assignment for
HICOG. Several other Hollywood
film people are in Berlin to work
on the HICOG film program. All of
them work with German writers and
technicians. .

William Rankin, who wrote “Boys’
Town,” “Harvey Girls” and “Only
Angels Have Wings,” is preparing a
film “Berlin Today,” which aims at
explaining Berlin, its importance and
its spirit. Frank Dazey and his wife,
Agnes Christine Johnson, who wrote
“The Andy Hardy Series,” “Janie
Gets Married,” “Black Beauty,” and
“Black Gold” have been preparing a
film about the kindergarten and
lower schools and their importance
in the tradition of German child
education.

Jack Moffitt, another Hollywood
writer, is working on a full-length
documentary film about postwar
Germany. Through existing newsreel
and archive films it will trace Ger-
many’s growth and progress during
the past seven years.

Mr. Templeton explained that the
coming of these leading film experts
from Hollywood to Germany con-
stitutes a sort of “exchange pro-
gram,” an opportunity for persons
in American and German film
industries to learn from each other.

Yacht Returned to Cologne

The 100-ton motor yacht “Stadt
Koeln” (City of Cologne) which had
been utilized by the US Army since
March 1945, was returned to Ger-
man control Oct. 1 during a brief
ceremony at Rheinau.

The vessel, which cost $80,000
when it was constructed in 1938,
was officially returned to the con-
trol of the city of Cologne when
Col. Harold C. Rowe presented the
ship’s papers to Dr. Max Adenauer,
son of the German chancellor. Dr.

23

Opening session of the annual con-
ference of the German Federation of
Trade Unions (DGB) in Berlin in Oc-

tober. (MSA photo by Wolf Heine

Adenauer, commissioner for econom-
ics and harbors at Cologne, rep-
resented the city at the ceremony.
Colonel Rowe is commanding officer
of the 8th Transportation Traffic
Regulation Group.

Dr. Adenauer thanked the US
Army for the excellent care that had
been taken of the vessel during the
seven and one half years that it had
plied the Rhine River, carrying
Americans on outings, cruises and
other special trips.

The yacht was originally procured
by Cologne to serve as a fireboat.
There is no record of the vessel ever
having been used for fire-fighting,
and little is known of its activities
during the early war years. The
vessel, with many others, was trans-
ferred to a mooring site on the Rhine
River near St. Goarshausen. Many
of the vessels were sunk during
Allied air raids on the river but the
“Stadt Koeln” was undamaged when
it was found by advance US Army
elements March 25, 1945.

Shortly after its seizure by US
forces, the German Waterways Ad-
ministration registered the vessel as
property of the American Army.
Since that date, until its return, it
had been under continuous Army
control.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Ants Essential to Forest

Members of the US Armed Forces
in Germany have been directed to
avoid destruction of ant colonies
because of the insects’ essential role
in the forest conservation program
of the German Federal Republic.

Officials at Headquarters, US
Army, Europe, said the directive was
issued after the German Ministry
of Food, Agriculture and Forestry
reported that forest ants were being
destroyed at an alarming rate during
maneuvers and field exercises.

The ministry pointed out that it
has been attempting to multiply the
number of forest ants because they
are indispensable in the control of
forest-damaging insects such as
caterpillars, bark beetles and other
tree and foliage destroyers.

According to the ministry, the
destruction of ant hills has been a
serious setback to the effort of Ger-
man forestry officials and zoologists
who are spending time and money
to propagate forest ants.

GYA Handicraft Contest

The fourth annual handicraft con-
test sponsored by the Armed Forces
sculpture, dress designing, metal
Assistance Program to German

George Warren, State Department’s adviser on re:
capee Program, recently visited the Valka Re
the problem of refugees from “Iron Curtain” countries. Shown (above left) at inspection of school where children
of a dozen nationalities are continuing their studies after flight from the East are (left to right): Archie S. Lang,

migration specialist in Bavaria; Elmer Falk,

Youth Activities (GYA) will be held
in Munich April 13 to 19.

The contests, which attracted over
15,000 entries a year ago, will be cli-
maxed with an_ exhibition and
award ceremony in the Munich
America House. The 480 first-place
winning articles, selected in com-
petitions held at GYA_ centers
throughout the US area of respon-
sibility in Germany, will be judged
at the final event.

Prizes*and certificates for the best
48 entries will be presented at a cer-
emony scheduled for the last day of
the handicraft show.

Products of handicraft shops, stu-
dios and sewing rooms in 74 GYA
centers may be entered in the con-
test. Items to be submjtted will in-
clude exhibits of skill in woodwork-
ing, knitting and sewing, clay mod-
eling and pottery-making, painting
working, puppetry, radio, photog-
raphy, bookbinding, leathercraft,
boat building, glass illuminating,
and scale modeling of airplanes,
railroads and factories.

Sixteen classes of entries for each
of three age groups are to be judged
in the scores of preliminary contests.
First, second and third place prize
entries will be on display at the
Munich finals.

As in previous years, leading US
Military and State Department of-

ficials, as well as German govern-
ment and civic officials, are being
invited to attend the award cer-
emony.

Decartelization Action

The Decartelization and Industrial
Deconcentration Group (DIDEG) of
the Allied High Commission an-

nounced Dec. 1 the issuance of an |

order to show cause against two as-
sociations of paper manufacturers,
the Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Papier
und Pappe verarbeitenden Industrie
(APV) in Frankfurt and the Ge-
meinschaft Papiersackindustrie of
Wiesbaden.

The order requires the associations
to show cause why they should not
be ordered to cease activities result-
ing in the fixing of prices for the
sale of paper bags on a division of
markets.

APV is a trade association com-
prising a number of associations
each of which includes in its mem-
bership manufacturers producing
particular’ categories of paper prod-
ucts. The Gemeinschaft is one of the
subassociations of APV and includes
in its membership forty-one man-
ufacturers of paper bags.

The order alleges that practically
all paper bag manufacturers in

western Germany are members of

fugees and displaced persons and director of the President’s Es-
‘fugee Camp in Bavaria during his tour of western Europe to study

, Chief of the Escapee Program Division, HICOG, and Mr. Warren.

Photo (above right) are Mr. Falk, Mr. Warren, Mr. Lang and Mrs. Anna Matsson (second from left), US represent-

ative of the International Rescue Committee, talk with
and now lives in one room at Camp Valka.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

a Czech mother who recently fled from her native la
(Photos from US Public Affairs Field Center, Nuremberg)

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 28 ---
the Gemeinschaft; that through the
Gemeinschaft uniform prices and
terms and conditions of sale are
fixed and maintained for the sale of
paper bags in western Germany;
that the Gemeinschaft boycotts pro-
spective customers considered to be
undesirable by the issuance of black
lists of customers and that the prices
and rules established by the Ge-
meinschaft are enforced by a system
of careful market observation. In
addition agreements are maintained
by the members of the Gemeinschaft
with Dutch, Belgian and French
manufacturers of paper bags which
limit and restrain competition by
dividing and allocating markets
among the parties to the agreement.
This order was issued by DIDEG
as the agency responsible for the
enforcement of the decartelization
laws which prohibit collusive fixing
of prices, boycotting and agreements
dividing territorial markets.

Cook Books Exhibited

A unique exhibit “How the World
Cooks,” presented by the America
House in Kiel during September,
featured 151 cook books and menus
collected by Guenter Rhau, a local
employee of the Information Center.
Later the exhibit was shown in the
British Center in Flensburg.

The exhibit was opened by a lec-
ture by Mr. Rhau on “The Influence
of America’s Gastronomy and Hotel
Science on Europe.“ Later he spoke
on ,What the World Eats — from
the Mexican Tortilla to the Eskimo
Whale,” “Gastronomy in the Fine
Arts” and “Spirit and World at the
Table.”

The oldest cook book on display
was dated 1709. Menus included
those of several leading air and
steamship lines.

The exhibit was extensively re-
viewed, including a 17-minute
broadcast by the Northwest German
Radio. The Flensburger Nachrichten
said, “Looking at the various ex-
hibits one recognizes that gastron-
omy is a science itself ... House-
wives will draw a lot of ‘inspira-
tion’ from this exhibition and find
many things to amuse them.” Sued-
schleswigsche Heimatzeitung (Flens-

DECEMBER 1952

Illustrating electoral process, students of the Thomas A. Roberts American

School in Berlin presented a mock election skit at the first meeting of the

Parent-Teacher Association of the new school year.

burg) said, “The exhibition is illus-
trative of the culinary taste of the
various peoples, and it is obvious
that the French have produced the
most comprehensive literature on
the subject.”

Cooperation in Berlin

American and Soviet representa-
tives in Berlin were able to get to-
gether in November on two projects
along the border of the US Sector
and the Soviet Zone. One was to
conduct a topographical survey at
specific points along the border and
the other to place electric lights
along the road leading to the US
Sector exclave of Steinstuecken.

The points under border survey
were those over which confusion has
arisen as a result of faulty or inac-
curate definition of the boundary
line in 1945. At that time a number
of boundary markers which had
been destroyed or damaged were
overlooked by personnel surveying
the border areas.

It was determined that the US
Sector border in the disputed area
along Jenbacherweg in Lankwitz
was drawn correctly and border signs
are correctly placed. At the second
Point in question, it was determined
that the Soviet Zone border cuts
across Andreezeile in Zehlendorf.
Approximately 100 square yards of
uninhabited territory were joined to
the Soviet Zone as a result of the
border revision.

25

(US Army photo)

Concerning the electric lights to
the exclave of Steinstuecken atten-
tion was called to the inadequate il-
lumination of the several hundred
yards of the road crossing Soviet
Zone territory and Soviet agreement
was asked to the construction of a
row of street lights. Agreement was
contained in a letter dated Nov. 4.

Recently the 160 inhabitants of
Steinstuecken have been engaged in
widening and improving the road
connecting the exclave with West
Berlin proper to make it suitable for
vehicular traffic. When the work is
completed, the Borough of Zehlen-
dorf will make a 1'/: ton truck avail-
able to the exclave. A resident of
Steinstuecken has obtained a driv-
er’s license recently to drive the
truck, which will transport necessary
supplies.

First Helicopters Arrive

A number of H-13E helicopters,
the first supplied to the US Army
in Europe, are now being sent to
US tactical units in Germany.

The H-13E is one of the types of
helicopters used successfully in com-
bat by the UN Forces in Korea. It
carries either one passenger sitting
next to the pilot or two litter pa-
tients strapped to platforms outside
the cabin. Powered by a 200 horse-
power engine, it is capable of for-
ward speeds in excess of 90 miles
per hour, can fly in any direction,
and can hover in one place in the air.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Personnel Notes

Supervising Consul General

Herve J. L'Heureux, for the past
five years chief of the US State De-
partment’s Visa Division, arrived
late in October in Mehlem to assume
his new position as supervising con-
sul general in Germany.

In his present capacity, Mr. L’Heu-
reux will act exclusively as ex-
ecutive head of all US consular
activities in the Federal Republic.

He replaces Albert M. Doyle, who
before retiring after 30 years in the
US Foreign Service, had doubled as
consul general in Frankfurt and su-
pervisory general consul in Ger-
many.

Mr. L’Heureux was US consul in
Stuttgart from January 1937 to Octo-
ber 1939. He has also served in con-
sular posts in Canada, Algeria,
France, Portugal and Belgium.

The new supervising consul gen-
eral is known in the United States as
the founder of a “Prayers-for
Peace” movement which has been
endorsed by5,081 American organiza-
tions. The movement promotes a
daily one-minute prayer at noon-
time for world peace by members of
all faiths.

New PAO in Munich

Lowell Clucas assumed in October
his duties as public affairs officer at
the American Consulate General in
Munich and in charge of the public
affairs activities in southern Bavaria.

Mr. Clucas, accompanied by his
wife and two children, came to Ger-
many from the Voice of America of-
fice in New York City where he had
been director of news and comments.
In 1950-52 he was a member of the
US delegation to the United Nations
General Assemblies in New York
and Paris and during World War II
served with the Office of War In-
formation. He was a graduate of
Yale University and had been a
newspaperman in Pennsylvania and
Florida.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dr. Charles D. Winning, who had
been public affairs officer in Munich,
had resigned to accept an assign-
ment as international relations of-
ficer with the US Army Europe
Headquarters in Heidelberg.

Dr. Winning served nearly eight
years with Military Government and
HICOG in Germany, arriving in 1945
with the MG Detachment for North
Baden. He was named deputy direc-
tor of OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden in
September of that year and a year
later became director of the Regional
Government Coordinating Office in
Stuttgart.

With RGCO’s phasing out in May
1948, Dr. Winning was appointed
director of the Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, OMG Ba-
varia and continued as chief of the
Public Affairs Division, Office of the
US State Comissioner for Bavaria
with the advent of HICOG opera-
tions. For a time in 1949-50 he was
acting chief of the Education und
Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs HICOG, in Frankfurt.

representative for economic affairs, Paris, and Harlan Cleveland, assist-
ant director for Europe, Mutual Security Agency, Washington, met with

Before service in World War II,
Dr. Winning had been a professor at
New York University for 25 years
and was active as an explorer, hav-
ing discovered the “Cave of the De-
capitated Mummies” in the Colorado
River gorge.

Radio Chief Departs

Charles S. Lewis, chief of US
radio broadcasting operations in Ger-
many for the past seven years, re-
signed at the end of November to
return to New York City to re-enter
private business. He was among the
American civilians to enter Germany
with the troops immediately after
the wer for assignment with Mil-
itary Government and consequently
was among those having the longest .
continuous service in occupation duty.

Mr. Lewis arrived in Germany
July 12, 1945 as a specialist of the
Office of War Information, attached
to the Psychological Warfare Divi-
sion, SHAEF. His first assignment
was as deputy chief of the Radio
Branch, Office of the Director of In-
formation Control, and shortly after-
wards he was named chief of the
branch.

It was under his supervision that
RIAS, the US-operated radio station

leaders of the German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB). Shown (left to

right): Dr. Karl F. Bode, deputy director, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG; Ernst Scharnowski, Berlin DGB chairman; Ambassador Porter; Clif-
ford J. Quainlan, Labor Affairs Division, HICOG’s Berlin Element, and

Mr. Cleveland.

26

(BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

DECEMBER 1952

--- Page 30 ---
in Berlin, was developed into one of
the most powerful and effective sta-
tions in Europe. Under Military
Government, Mr. Lewis was respon-
sible for the operation of Radio Bre-
men, Radio Frankfurt, Radio Munich
and Radio Stuttgart, as American
stations. He directed the preparation
for their turnover in 1949 to German
public service corporations, which
have managed them under a prin-
ciple of free radio, in contrast to the
centralized government-controlled
radio of the Nazi period.

Before coming to Germany, Mr.
Lewis served with the Voice of
America, after receiving a medical
discharge from the US Army in 1943.
A former newspaperman, he had
been employed with the Brooklyn
Eagle for 13 years. He began his

newspaper career in Springfield,
Mass.
Mr. Lewis was author of the

feature “Training Radio Talent” in
the Information Bulletin, No. 169,
Sept. 6, 1949, and consultant on other
articles, including RIAS” in issue
No. 146, Oct. 19, 1948; “Radio in US
Zone” by Ruby A. Parson, No. 165,
July 12, 1949, and “RIAS, the Truth
Crusader” by Aileen S. Miles, De-
cember 1950.

Public Affairs Adviser Leaves

Mrs. Mildred E. Allen returned to
the Department of State in Wash-
ington in early November for a new
assignment after more than two
years as special assistant to the
director of the Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG. During her service in
Germany she supervised the co-
ordination of the HICOG public af-
fairs activities with the international
information program of the Depart-
ment of State. She also was a mem-
ber of the Editorial Advisory Board
of the Information Bulletin.

This was her fourth governmental
assignment in Germany since World
War II. After serving with the Office
of War Information in London and
with the Psychological Warfare Divi-
sion, SHAEF, in Paris during the
war, Mrs. Allen assisted in 1945 in
adapting various OWI projects to In-

DECEMBER 1952

formation Control Division opera-
tions. She was a member of the State
Department’s survey team on in-
formation and education in the sum-
mer of 1949 and returned a short
time later for several months in an
advisory capacity to the Office of
Public Affairs.

Takes Manila Post

Dr. Eugene Fair, senior cultural
officer of the Public Affairs Section,
American Consulate General in
Frankfurt, left for the United States
Oct. 16 for home leave and consulta-
tions before going to his new post as
cultural officer at the American Em-
bassy in Manila, the Philippines.

Dr. Fair came to Germany in 1948
to join OMG Hesse in Wiesbaden
as chief of the General Education
Branch. With the advent of HICOG
operations, he became chief of the
Public Education Section, OLCH,

state of Hesse, particularly in school
reform and free tuition. He also took
a major role in the establishment of
the School Village of the Bergstrasse
near Darmstadt (see Information
Bulletin, July 1952, page 15).

Press Officer Resigns

Ernest Langendorf, press officer in
Bonn for the Public Liaison Branch,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, for
the past six months, has resigned,
effective Dec. 31, to accept a position
with Radio Free Europe in Munich.

Joining Military Government in
Munich in the early days of the oc-
cupation, Mr. Langendorf was with
the Information Control. Division,
OMG Bavaria, becoming chief of the
Press Branch which handled rela-
tions with German newspapers. .Un-
der HICOG operations, he became
chief of the Information Services Di-

Mr. Brown (center) was sworn in as director by George Riddiford, (left)
Division of Foreign Service Personnel, Department of State, in Washington,
as Durward V. Sandifer, deputy assistant secretary for United Nations affairs,

looks on.

subsequently filling the posts of dep-
uty chief of the Public Affairs Divi-
sion, chief of the Education and Cul-
tural Relations Branch and chief of
the Education Branch.

During his service with the US
mission in Hesse, he took an active
part in the reorganization of the
German educational system of the

27

(Department of State photo)

vision, OMG Bavaria, until his

transfer to Bonn.

Mr. Langendorf was author of the
article “School of Journalism” in the
Information Bulletin, July 12, 1949,
which described the project for
training young Germans for news-
paper work according to democratic
principles.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
JNUACUSUNGOOUGUODAOUGNOUOOGCAOOUOEGOOOOEONSONAONENOASONOOONONLS

Resolution on the Saar

Several German editorials reflected
little enthusiasm Nov. 20 over the
Parliament resolution backing the
unlicensed pro-German parties of
the Saar in their campaign to
encourage the voters to stay away
from the polls at the Nov. 30 elec-
tion. (Early unofficial returns from
the Nov. 30 voting indicated a heavy
turnout.)

The newspapers felt that the Fed-
eral Parliament, instead of using
“strong language” against France,
“would have done better had it crit-
icized the election of pro-Nazis in
the last local elections” in Germany.
They also thought it was rather ir-
responsible to urge the Saar people
to abstain from voting and advised
it might be wiser to vote for one of
the licensed Saar parties, some of
which were opposed to the incum-
bent officials, than to turn in blank
ballots.

Asserting the Saar issue was get-
ting too much attention in European
politics, Frankfurter Neue Presse
(Frankfurt) felt that domestic Ger-
man developments such as the elec-
tion of former Nazis Wilhelm Schep-
mann and Fritz Krebs were of
greater importance, especially in the
eyes of the American people “who
again are getting suspicious that
(nationalist) trends will flare up in
Germany.”

If the United States was already
alarmed over such trends, “our next
door neighbors,” the French, must be
even more so, the paper stressed,
adding that the Parliament would
have done better had it reserved its

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking. The selection has been made so as
to cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press,
and to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion
of any event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence
by US authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced
by the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

re

“strong language” for the “enemies
of our state” rather than for France.

The Saar problem should be dealt”

with by diplomats and not loud or-
ators, the paper concluded.

Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim)
said it was “dangerous” to appeal to
the Saar people not to vote. It im-
plied that the non-voter in the Saar
might meet with the same fate as
would a Soviet Zone citizen who
stayed away from the polls.

Fraenkische Nachrichten (Tauber-
bischofsheim) expressed belief that
turning in of white ballot sheets
might prove to be an advantage for
Saar Premier Johannes Hoffmann
because, by doing so, the voter
merely deprived himself to the op-
portunity to support anti-Hoffmann
forces which “exist in the Saar legis-
lature as well as among the licensed
Saar parties.”

Biased Opinions Charged

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt) expressed regrets Nov. 4 that
“many foreigners misunderstand
and misjudge the Germans” and
consequently publicly express biased
opinions on Germany.

The newspaper credited the rea-
son for many such “generalizations”
to the fact that foreign observers
“make no distinctions” and neither
study conditions thoroughly enough
nor analyze them properly.

Quoting from a recently published
survey by a Chicago professor whom
it did not identify, Neue Presse
stated that the professor, upon his

28

“Well,

Private Adenauer,
reassemble your piece?” —
Aachener Nachrichten(Aachen),Nov.14

can you
from

return from Germany, claimed “that
the Germans are still Nazis, that
they are not interested in democracy
and that they wait for a new Hitler
to come and lead them.”

The newspaper expressed regret
that foreigners, who were unaware
of the “special problems in Ger-
many,” showed a tendency to believe
such “simplifications,” advanced by
an “expert,” more readily than a
profound analysis.

Appointment of Dulles

Stressing that the appointment of
John Foster Dulles for secretary of
state in the new American cabinet
has surprised “no one,” Frankfurter
Allgemeine (Frankfurt) believed that
President-elect Eisenhower picked’
Mr. Dulles on account of the latter’s
political and diplomatic experiences
for nearly half a century. The paper’
recalled several instances when Mr.
Dulles stepped into the diplomatic’
scene and praised him for having’
concluded the peace treaty with Ja="
pan — “his diplomatic masterpiece.”’

Analyzing what the paper termed
as the “Dulles Doctrine,” Allgemeine’
warned, however, that the “policy of
deterrent,” with which Mr. Dulles, in’
the paper’s opinion, intended to re-’
place the present administration's
“policy of containment,” might lead’
to war. Implying that such a “policy

DECEMBER 1983!

--- Page 32 ---
of deterrent” called for the use of
“retaliation forces” in case of Soviet
aggression, Allgemeine concluded its
editorial Nov. 24 by requesting that
Mr. Dulles, as soon as he becomes
secretary of state, “tells us very
distinctly how he plans to use re-
taliation against a very experienced
world power whose sphere of inter-
est reaches far.”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich)
said it expected “no sudden changes”
in US foreign policy under the new
administration due to the fact that
Mr. Dulles has for a long time
served the present administration
and even his “greater interest” in
the Far East would not result in a
“sudden neglect” of Europe.

Less optimistically, Hamburger
Echo (Hamburg) expressed doubts
that Mr. Dulles’ “policy of deter-
rent” — force a political “retreat” of
the Soviets — would be successful.
The paper hoped that Mr. Dulles
would not be “all-powerful” in his
foreign policy decisions and that the
other Western nations would say
“no” any “bold” plan, even if such a
plan should be backed by Mr. Eisen-
hower.

A Radio Stuttgart commentator
warned the Soviet Union that Mr.
Dulles “is a man who always knew

noe co it be? — from Hamburger Echo (Hamburg),
Ov. se

DECEMBER 1952

The victor’s waiting room. — from Nuernberger Nachrichten (Nuremberg),

Nov. 11.

how to kill before he got killed him-
self,” and a Radio Munich com-
mentator said his nomination would
result in greater “flexibility” of US
policy toward the Soviet Union.

Local Elections

The voters’ support of the “big
parties” in the local elections Nov. 9
in the states of Lower Saxony, North
Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-
Palatinate was interpreted by the
German press as indicating the
smaller parties will have little
chance of success in the 1953 par-
liamentary elections.

In reviewing the results of the
elections, the press pointed out that

Q SIAN

gart), Nov. 15.

29

42240

the Social Democratic Party (SPD)
moved into first place in North
Rhine-Westphalia with 36.2 percent
of the total vote against 35.7 percent
for the Christian Democratic Union
(CDU).

In Lower Saxony, the SPD re-
mained in first place with 32.1 per-
cent, but the Bloc of Expellees and
Victims of Injustice (BHE) moved
into second place with 16.9 percent
at the expense of the CDU which
gained only 3.1 percent of the total
vote. The CDU had lost more than
20 percent since the last municipal,
county and local elections of Nov. 28,
1948.

The CDU retained its first place
in Rhineland-Palatinate with 38.9

An

4

SAE

“g y
we A\ ys oS Fe |

... And they say Eisenhower is familiar with Europe.
— from Deutsche Zeitung und Wirtschaftszeitung (Stutt-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
(depicting tree of the Social-Democratic gains in recent elections cutting off
the chancellor’s view) — from Neuer Vorwaerts (Hanover), November 17.

percent and the SPD second with
33.4 percent.

The newspapers reported that Wil-
helm Schepmann, former SA chief of
staff, was elected on the BHE ticket
in Lower Saxony, while in North
Rhine-Westphalia, Hans Gnade,
former Nazi mayor of Goettingen,
and Adolf von Thadden, former So-
cial Reichs Party (SRP) delegate to
the Federal Parliament, were chosen
for local offices on the German
Party (DP) tickets and Hasso von
Manteuffel, a former general, on the
Free Democratic Party (FDP).

In Southern Hanover where a by-
election was held for the parliament
seat left vacant by the death of SPD
leader Dr. Kurt Schumacher, the So-
cial Democrats were reported win-
ning again with 59 percent of the
vote.

The Communist Party (KPD) lost
heavily in all three states.

Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim)
called the local elections “a success
of democracy in Germany” because
of the heavy turnout, the stabiliza-
tion of the great parties and the
clear “no” to the left radicals.

The Cologne newspaper Koelnische
Rundschau held that the present
election and tabulating system “too
complicated” and recommended a
clear electoral system based on the
majority vote.

Two of Frankfurt’s newspapers,
Allgemeine and Neue Presse, stated
the ,communal elections are no
dress-rehearsal for 1953,” stressing

INFORMATION BULLETIN

that local elections dealt first of all
with local problems, voters of the
three states did not represent the
Federal Republic and future foreign
policy might yet influence public
opinion to an extent which would be
difficult to assess at the present
time.

Westfaelische Rundschau (Dort-
mund) declared “The CDU is no
longer the leading party and will
never be it again,” and called the

FDP the “coming party of the
right.”
Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidel-

berg) saw two of the reasons for
the increase of SPD voters in the
“co-determination campaign” (Ger-
man program to give labor rep-
resentation in management of in-
dustrial plants) and in the “influence
of labor unions.”

UN Editorials

During the three days immediately
following the US elections, the West
German press almost ignored the
current session of the UN General
Assembly in New York. Hardly 10
percent of the papers reviewed dur-
ing the first half of November car-
ried any stories on the UN at all;
these stories, usually agency report;,
were concerned primarily with
French protests against UN inter-
ference in North Africa.

Interest in the UN gradually re-
vived when French Foreign Min-
ister Schuman and British Foreign
Secretary Eden left for New York.

30

Papers however, were primarily in-
terested in speculations about Eden’s
and Schuman’s meetings with the
Republican winners of the US elec-
tions. A few papers also gave good
play to reports about possible efforts
of the Arab nations in the UN to
mediate in the Korea conflict.

Interest in the UN revived sud-
denly Nov. 11 primarily in Trygve
Lie’s resignation as secretary gen-
eral. There was interest also in Vy-
shinsky’s threat that the truce ne-
gotiations in Korea may be broken
off.

Most editorials concerning Lie’s
resignation expressed the opinion
that Lie resigned because he was
unable to bridge the chasm between
East and West. Rhein-Neckar-Zei-
tung (Heidelberg) added: “His res-
ignation will be in vain if it was
intended to open the road toward an
understanding. The difficulties were
not due to Lie’s personality but
were due to the deep conflict be-
tween East and West.”

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart) ad-
vised that Lie’s successor should be
a member of one of the Arab na-
tions and thus completely independ-
ent from East and West. General-
Anzeiger (Bonn) commented: “It is
hardly to be expected that a new
General Secretary would have more
success in mediating world-political
problems than his predecessor had.”
Hannoversche Presse (Hanover) was "
of the opinion that the election of
a successor for Lie would be ex-
tremely difficult and would take a
long time; meanwhile Lie would
still continue to hold his office.

When the first excitement about
Lie’s resignation subsided, interest
declined noticeably. The only UN
stories getting big play were the
suicide of Abraham Feller and the
various proposals for the solution of
the Korea conflict. Part of the press
tended to sensationalize Feller’s
death. .

The attitude of the West-German
press to various recent proposals for
the solution of the Korea crisis was
clearly indicated by the headline in
the Mannheimer Morgen (Mann-
heim): “Many Proposals but No
Solution.”

DECEMBER 1988

--- Page 34 ---
Greek Elections

The overwhelming victory of
Marshal Papagos’ right-wing party
in the Greek national elections
Nov. 16 received front-page play.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frank-
furt) thought the election of Papa-
gos “may have some advantages” —
he was pro-American, the Turks
liked him and the Yugoslavs trusted
him; thus his election might help to

consolidate the anti-Communist
front in southeastern Europe.
However, the paper expressed

concern over the election of “still
another military man” into a coun-
try’s top political office, and stressed
that the prominent role played by
generals in world politics is “symp-
tomatic” for the general political
situation. The paper hoped that this
“vogue” would be over soon.

According to Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Munich), Papagos was Greece’s
“strong man” whose integrity and
honesty won him the election, “but
he is also the strong man because
he is fully acceptable to Eisen-
hower.”

“Only the future will tell whether
Papagos too, will turn into a dicta-
tor,” the paper added, concluding
that with Papagos in office, the “in-
dividualist and liberal” era in
Greece has come to an end, giving
way to “the American era.”

Kidnapers of Dr. Linse

The identifying of the four kid-
napers of Dr. Walter Linse, member
of the Investigating Committee of
Free Jurists of the Soviet Zone, was
widely reported in the Berlin press
Nov. 14, along with praise for US
High Commissioner Walter J. Don-
nelly for directing international at-
tention to the crime. The identifica-
tion of the quartet who forced Dr.
Linse into an automobile in the US
Sector of Berlin July 8 and sped
him into the Soviet Zone, was made
by Dr. Johannes Stumm, Berlin pol-
ice president, at a press conference
(see page 19). The four kidnapers,
listed as having long criminal rec-
ords, were described as members of
a l7-man gang organized by the
Soviet Zone secret police.

DECEMBER 1952

Tagesspiegel (Berlin), calling the
East Zone government “a regime of
criminals,” was not surprised that
East Zone security minister Wilhem
Zaisser “is collaborating with pro-
fessional criminal.” The paper sar-
castically stressed that, in spite of
the Comnfiunists’ claims that Dr.
Linse was a member of an “or-
ganization of spies” and a “public
enemy,” no Communist zealot found
himself ready to commit the abduc-
tion and the act had to be given to
professional bandits.

Tagesspiegel believed that the dis-
closures of the details of the abduc-
tion gave US authorities the occasion
to take further steps in Karlshorst
(headquarters of the Soviet author-
ities), and demanded the liquidation
of the East Zone “Ministry of State
Security” because this “criminal or-
ganization” threatens the democratic
population of Berlin.

Telegraf (Berlin) stressed that all
Eastern attempts to divert attention
from the Linse case were in vain
and the identification of the kid-
napers has proved the East Zone
government’s_,,identity with crim-
inals.” The paper said that such a
regime has placed itself outside the
comunity of civilized nations.

Der Tag (Berlin), expressing satis-
faction over the successful West
Berlin action to identify the kid-
napers, expressed in particular its
praise of Commissioner Donnelly for
directing international attention to
the crime. The paper stressed, how-
ever, that the revelations alone were
not enough since it was of little
help to Dr. Linse himself. “What he
needs is his freedom,” Der Tag de-
clared, recommending the whole
case be brought before the United
Nations.

If you go to Korea, I go to Kurope;
if you go to Europe, I go to Korea.
— from Hannoversche Presse (Han-
over), Nov. 14.

31

Official Announcements

HICOM Meeting of Oct. 16

The 94th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Oct. 16
at Mehlem. Present were Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner (Chairman), Mr. Walter J. Don-
nelly, United States High Commissioner,
and Mr. Armand Berard, Deputy French
High Commissioner, representing Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet.

Matters of routine Council
were discussed

The 95th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at
Mehlem Nov. 25. Present were Mr. Walter
J. Donnelly, United States High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner, and
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom
High Commissioner.

The Council decided that as a result

business

. Of the Federal Republic’s having become

a member of the International Monetary
Fund, the Allied High Commission will
no longer exercise the reserved power
in the field of control over foreign trade
and exchange to ensure the observance
by the Federal Republic of the principles
and practices of the International Mon-
etary Fund Agreement and to control the
exchange rate in the Federal Republic.

Officer’s Detention Protested

US High Commissioner Walter J.
Donnelly protested against the six-day
detention by Soviet authorities of Lt.
William Stonebraker, US Army officer
formerly stationed in Berlin, in a note
delivered Nov. 6 to Soviet headquarters
in Berlin’s East Sector. Text of Mr.
Donnelly’s letter, which was addressed
to Gen. V.I. Chuikov, chairman of the
Soviet Control Commission in Germany,
follows.

It is my duty to bring to your personal
attention the actions of your subor-
dinates in the case of the American Lt.
William L. Stonebraker. They would be
ludicrous if they were not so serious,
and I cannot believe that your subor-
dinates would themselves willingly bring
the facts to your attention.

Lt. Stonebraker had orders to return
to the United States for release from ac-
tive duty. He set out on October 26 from
Berlin to drive his personal car to
Bremerhaven for shipment back to the
United States. At one of the junction
points on the Berlin-Helmstedt Autobahn,
he took a wrong turn. He discovered his
error and attempted to return to the
Helmstedt Autobahn. Before he could
accomplish this, he was arrested by a
Soviet patrol.

It is impossible for the outside world
to see what sinister motivation could
have been read by your subordinates
into this simple error. Here is a man
about fo return to his home and to civil-
ian life. What conceivable motive could
have led him to drive a few miles into
the Soviet Zone on a wrong road and
then turn around and try to drive back
again? To ask the question is to answer
it. There was no motive, but a simple
mistake.

So, what happened? Lt. Stonebraker
was taken under guard to the Soviet
headquarters in Karlshorst. The inexor-
able Soviet security system went into
operation. He was held incommunicado
for six days. He was questioned. He was
asked his views about capitalism and
Communism, whether his parents were
workers, and what he thought about
Korea and about the withdrawal of
troops from Germany, etc. He was of-
fered the opportunity to meet American
soldiers alleged to have deserted.

You will understand, I am sure, when
I say that under the circumstances such

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
interrogation is simply absurd. I suspect
you share my view.

As if this were not enough, the Soviet
authorities, with Lt. Stonebraker in their
custody and under interrogation for six
days, denied any knowledge of him. They
must have known—even when they
threatened him with indefinite detention
and told him he might never again see
freedom—that the day would come when
he would be released. Their denials that
they knew where he was were sheer
stupidity—unless of course we are to
assume that a man can be held in cus-
tody in your headquarters without the
knowledge of your senior officers.

I confess that I do not understand the
mentality which leads the Soviet security
system to play games of this Kind. Its
complete futility and its childishness
baffle me.

While the action is childish, it is also
dangerous. Surely there are enough
serious issues between the Soviet Union
and the United States without adding an
irritant of this preposterous character.

If these facts have come to your atten-
tion I am sure that the culprits have
already received well-merited punish-
ment. If not, I demand that such punish-
ment be meted out and that steps be
taken to avoid a repetition of this in-
cident.

New Linse Note

In a note delivered to Soviet Head-
quarters in East Berlin Nov. 25, US High
Commissioner Walter J. Donnelly de-
manded that Soviet authorities release
Dr. Walter Linse, US Sector resident
kidnaped in July by state-hired agents
from the Soviet Zone. The note was ad-
dressed to Gen. V. I. Chuikov, chairman
of the Soviet Control Commission in
Germany. Text of the note follows:

It is now more than three months since
we have agreed that our representatives
should conduct a joint inquiry into the
kidnaping of Dr. Linse. More than two
and a half months ago we gave you in-
formation which specifically identified
the police station in the Soviet Sector to
which Dr. Linse was taken by the kid-
napers, and other information, from
which all the details of the crime could
have been easily and immediately as-
certained. Subsequent attempts of my
representative to meet with his Soviet
colleague, or even to get answers about
the progress of your inquiry, were sin-
gylarly unsuccessful.

The West Berlin police have now com-
pleted and published the results of their
inquiry with complete identification of
the kidnapers, and complete details of
their relation to security forces under
your control and of the organization and
execution of the crime. I attach a copy
of their statement in case it has not been
brought to your personal attention.

When you agreed to an investigation
into this kidnaping, you clearly recog-
nized your obligation to return Dr. Linse
to the US Sector of Berlin and to punish
the perpetrators of the crime as soon as
it was shown that Dr. Linse had been
kidnaped into the Soviet Sector or Zone.
This fact has now been shown, together
with the fact that the kidnaping was
carried out by police agencies under
your control. I, therefore, demand that
you carry out your obligations and
deliver Dr, Linse to the US authorities
in the US Sector of Berlin and take
Prompt action to punish the prepetrators
of the kidnaping and those associated
with them.

Mailing of Money

Money order, cashiers checks or other
payment instruments expressed in non-
German currencies cannot be mailed out-
side of Germany through the German
Federal Postal Services.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

American authorities were notified by
the German government that violations
of this law have increased the workload
unnecessarily for German control
agencies.

The presumption that the Deutsche
Post offers faster service in such in-
stances is incorrect because detention
and investigation of such correspondence
is causing a considerable delay.

Mailing of personal checks and other
instruments negotiable in dollars to the
United States should be through the
Army-Air Force postal system by all
military personnel and civilian employ-
ees, as well as service-connected or-
ganizations and clubs, for the most ex-
peditious handling.

Personnel wishing to send other than
German currencies to persons not serv-
ices by an APO are advised to make use
of the commercial banking facilities. —
USAREUR announcement Nov. 18.

Licensing of US Hunters

The state governments of Hesse, Ba-
varia and Baden-Wuerttemberg will be-
gin licensing US hunters April 1, 1953,
under the terms of a new agreement
with Headquarters, US Army, Europe.

The new agreement, which will replace
the HICOG Hunting Code for US per-
sonnel, also sets US quotas for big game
animals on unleased public lands, re-
quires the payment of fees for animals
taken by US hunters, and establishes
joint German-American committees to
administer the agreement and to settle
disputes.

To obtain a hunting license in Ger-
many, Americans must first pass an ex-
amination of German hunting laws and
customs and the proper use of firearms.
The examination will be given by US
authorities,

Licenses, which will cost DM 50 ($11.90)
annually, will be the same as those for
German hunters and will be valid in all
three states. But permits for US hunters
to carry firearms and amunition will be
issued by US military authorities.

Until the new licensing system goes
into effect, US personnel may continue
to hunt with HICOG licenses.

The joint committees in each of the
three states will be composed of three
German and three American represent-
atives. A general committee will also be
formed to resolve matters referred to it
from the state committees. The general
committee will have its seat in Stuttgart
and will be composed of one German
representative from each of the three
states and three representatives of the
US forces.

The agreement extends to March 31,
1955, and may be amended by mutual
consent of the US forces and the German
state governments. After that date it
may be revised or terminated by mutual
Remand — USAREUR announcement

lov. 26.

United Nations Day

Following is the text of a statement
issued by United States High Commis-
sioner Walter J. Donnelly on the oc-
casion of the seventh anniversary of
United Nations Day:

When the United Nations came into
being seven years ago tomorrow— on
October 24, 1945— it was the hope of the
freedom loving peoples of the world that
this organization would usher in an era
a friendly, peaceful progress for man-

ind.

This seventh anniversary of that his-
toric and momentous event — United
Nations Day — finds us living in a se-
riously divided world. But the wounds
can be healed and the breaches can be
closed if all who pledged themselves to
the United Nations Charter would carry
out that pledge.

32

Events have proved that the principles
of this Charter of international behavior
can and will prevail as long as those of
us who believe in them are willing to
abide by them and to rally to their
defense.

The strengthening of the United Na-
tions and the accomplishment of its ob-
jectives are a major goal of the United
States Government. It is another objec-
tive of the United States to bring a
unified Germany into this association of
states.

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received during November
in the editorial office of the Information
Bulletin. Requests for any of these pub-
lications should be addressed to the orig-
inating agency.

Kontakt (Contact), Vol. I, No. 5, Ex-
changes of Persons Staff, Office of Pub-
lic Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov. 6,
1952. Magazine of 16 pages with articles
and items by and concerning Germans
who have been in the United States.

Department of State Bulletin, Vol. XXVII,
No. 698, Division of Publications, Office
of Public Affairs, Department of State
(Washington), Nov. 10, 1952, pages 727-
763. Articles include “Religion and the
Voice of America” by Roger Lyons and
“America’s Responsibility in Today's
World” by Howland H. Sargeant.

Official Gazette, No. 96, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Bonn-
Mehlem), Nov. 11, 1952, pages 2046-2147.
Official texts of recent legislation en-
acted by, and under authority of, the
Allied High Commission.

Information Bulletin for October, Infor-
mation Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov. 14, 1952,
32 pages.

AuBenpolitik der USA — 1952 (Foreign
Policy of the U.S. — 1952), Special Pub-
lications Staff, Information Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG (Meh-
lem), Nov. 14, 1952, 48 pages. German
translation of a brochure “Our Foreign
Policy 1952” issued by the US Depart-
ment of State. (The section on Ger-
many was reprinted in the Information
Bulletin, April 1952, page 2.)

Americas 34. Praesident (America’s 34th
President), Special Publications Staff,
Information Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Mehlem), Nov. 14, 1953.
Eight-page biographical sketch in Ger-
man of President-elect Dwight D.
Eisenhower.

Department of State Bulletin, Vol. XXVII,
No. 699, Division of Publications, Of-
fice of Public Affairs, Department of
State (Washington), Nov. 17, 1952, pages
767-803. Articles include “Soviet Harass-
ment of Foreign Diplomats” by Senator
Theodore F. Green and “UN Considers
Freedom of Information” by Charles
A. Sprague.

The West German Banking System, His-
torical Division, Office of Executive
Secretary, HICOG (Mehlem), Nov. 21,
1952. Historical monograph on develop-
ment since World War II, 126 pages.
Limited distribution.

Department of State Bulletin, Vol. XXVII,
No. 700, Division of Publications, ot-
fice of Public Affairs, Department of
State (Washington), Nov. 24, 1952, pages
907-843. Articles include translation of
statement by Dr. Johannes Stumm,
Berlin’s police president, Nov. 13, con-
cerning kidnaping of Dr. Walter Linse
(see page 19).

Women in West Germany, Historical
Division, Office of Executive Secretary,
HICOG (Mehlem), Nov. 28, 1952. Histor-
ical monograph on_ activities since
World War II, 72 pages.

DECEMBER 1988

--- Page 36 ---
FAHNEN-ET

wit

Standing in front of the new club banner, Mr. Jeschawitz (right) thanked Mr. Trost for the fine work.

New York Club Banner Made in Germany

A club banner, made by a manufacturer in Verden,
Lower Saxony, for the Amt Verdener Club, an or-
ganization of German descendents living in New York
City, was turned over to a delegation of the New York
group at a special ceremony in Verden Oct. 13.

Karl Jeschawitz, who with his wife and brother was
visiting his 80-year-old mother and other relations in
Lower Saxony, received the banner in the presence of

Mayor Andreas Willmsen, Gustav Hoffmann, town
administrator, and other prominent Verden citizens,
from Emil Trost of the manufacturing firm.

Mayor Willmsen, in a speech at the ceremony, pointed
out that “the new banner shall always remind the club
of the old home town and its citizens thereby furthering
mutual understanding not only between the club and the
town of Verden, but also between the American and
German nations in general.”

Attending the ceremony at which Karl Jeschawitz wrote his name in the town’s golden book in the town hall of
Verden were (left to right): Mayor Willmsen, the brother of Mr. Jeschawitz, Karl Jeschawitz, Mrs. Jeschawitz and

Mr. Trost,

(AMCONGEN photo by Schmidt)

--- Page 37 ---
© MERUN - ScHREE OTR WELTY
i Ragen «

~ BERLIN
= DER ‘
~ FREIHEIT

Marking UN Day in northern Bavaria, the above exhibit was shown in each
of the eight America Houses in the area. The exhibit, designed by the Public
Affairs Field Center in Nuremberg, pointed out that the Freedom Bell was
dedicated in Berlin on Oct. 24, 1950. With the photographs telling the story
of Free Berlin’s struggle to maintain its freedom, the center legend said “Ber-
lin—Beacon of Freedom,” that at top “Berlin—Shrine of World Freedom Bell,
Dedicated on October 24, 1950” and at bottom “Freedom Concerns Everybody.”

(Photo by Leykauf from Public Affairs Field Center, Nuremberg)

OB 15 Dec 52 05331 19M