--- Page 2 ---
1s Familienbetried:

Eimer Smith 0
ne
cod

THIS ISSUE:

\ America — Bremen Ties page 3 FEBRUARY
~~, Investment in Democracy page 7 1953
iy Rural Community Centers page 13

--- Page 3 ---
Mrs. Eleano, Dulles, assistant for economic affairs im the
State Departmment’s Bureau of German Affairs in Wash-
ington, inspected RIAS, US-sponsored radio station in Berlin,
Jan. 10 with Joseph C. Kolarek (left), chief of Public Affairs
Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, and Fred Taylor (center),
director of RIAS.

S pe atk
Accompanied by Cecil B. Lyon (left), director of Berlin Ele-

ment, HICOG, General Timberman inspected refugee camps
in Berlin Jan. 29.

Senator Charles W. Tobey of New Hampshire, during a two-
day visit to Berlin in early December, inspected the America
House and in its graphic art section, exramingd a design be-
ing prepared for attracting attention of the public to coming
exhibits and discussions.

Maj.Gen. Thomas S. Timberman (center), new US com-
mander in Berlin, met Jan. 9 with West Berlin labor union
leaders, including Willi Krause (left), chairman of the Build-
ing Union, and Ernst Scharnowski, Berlin chairman of the
German Federation of Labor Unions.

Activities in Berlin

Berliners attended the opening at the Berlin America Houst
Jan. 13 of an exhibit of photographs showing works of the
American architect Mies van der Rohe of Chicago.

COVER PHOTOGRAPH — As part of the annual
“Green Week” fair in Berlin, this model of the 168-acre
American farm owned by Elmer Smith of Rochelle, Il,
was on display in the George C. Marshall House.
Through this display of a typical midwest American
farm, thousands of visitors to the German agricultural
fair saw many modern features not yet achieved on most
European farms. The display was part of the exhibits of
the Mutual Security Agency and the US Government's
Point Four program, including aid to underdeveloped
areas of the world and comparative farm production
in Iron Curtain countries.

(all photos by Karl Schubert for Berlin Element, HICOG)

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff

Editor ............. H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .Henry A.Goodman
Feature Writer... ..... Carl Neuhof

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8728, 8896, 8958

Mehlem Office

HICOG Building, Wing V, Room 321
Telephone: Mehlem 3073

The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, and distributed, by
the Printing and Distribution Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located in Bad Godes-
berg-Plittersdorf.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 1757-A, US Army

Correspondence concerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Public Affairs
Field Center or the American Con-
sulate General.

Correspondence concerning inquir-
ies and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

February 1953

Activities in Berlin ......... Inside front cover
Pictorial Display

We Build a Better Life... ............ 2
Pictorial Feature

America-Bremen Ties ............... 3
Address by Wilhelm Kaisen

Investment in Democracy .............. 7
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney

MSA Help to Farmers ..............4. 9
Article by Henry A. Goodman

Communists Show Concern over Refugees ..... . 12
Summary of Public Affairs Survey

Rural Community Centers ............. 13
Article by Frank H. Jonas

Community Teams Visit US ............. 16
Pictorial feature

Many Names Applied to Red Heresies ........ 21
Survey by Berlin Element

Vopo Fugitives Confirm Reports on Bad Conditions . 22

Christmas Good Will ................ 23
Roundup of Activities
RIAS Inaugurates New Transmitter ......... 25
In and Around Germany .............. 26
Personnel Notes .........-.-.2.+026. 28
German Editorials ..............68.. 29
Official Announcements .............. 32
Soviet Zone Theater Being Reorganized ....... 33

Summary of Berlin Element Survey

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
ss a geese

Kitchen with modern equipment

Modernly equipped bathroom

Children’s playground

“We Build a Better Life”

A joint MSA-HICOG exhibit, entitled “We Build a Better
Life,” now touring Europe, is intended to demonstrate that
a higher standard of living can be attained by the peoples of
the Atlantic Community through increased productivity and
integration. It shows that the average man living in the At-
lantic Community will benefit when higher productivity and
the abolition of trade barriers have raised his real income.
It also shows that good design is thoroughly compatible with
mass production and that rationally designed products from
the different countries in the Atlantic Community can be
combined harmoniously.

The exhibit was shown first in connection with the In-
dustrial Fair 1952 in Berlin and transferred to Stuttgart in
early December. It is then to be shown in Hanover and suc-
cessively tours various European countries.

The Ideal House represents the home of an average skilled
worker and his family living in the Atlantic Community. It
consists of a kitchen, laundry and utility room, dining room,
nursery, bedroom, bath and living room and also has a garden
with garden furniture and tools. The roof is removed so that
spectators can see the interior from a rectangular balcony
running above the house.

A family of four, man, wife and two children, go through
the motions of normal living to demonstrate the interior to
the audience. While many of the items shown in the exhibit
are still too expensive for the average budget, as is pointed
out by a narrator over a public address system, increased
productivity and the removal of trade barriers will make
them available to the entire Atlantic Community at much
lower prices.

There is also a separate display of all consumer items used
in the Ideal House, showing country of origin, retail purchase
price and the number of hours a skilled worker would have
to work to earn enough to purchase the item.

(MSA photos by Wolf Heine)

Comfortable living room

--- Page 6 ---
One hundred and seventy years of trade between Bremen and the United States are graphically
described in an exhibit displayed during January and February in the America House, the US In-
formation Center in Bremen. Contributing to the exhibit were the Bremen Senate, Bremen Stor-
age Company, City Archives, Focke Museum, Federal Postal System, Bremen Cotton Exchange,
United States Lines, North German Lloyd and several local firms. Under the German title of Die
Handelsbeziehungen zwischen Bremen und U.S.A. — eine Briicke zwischen den Kontinenten (The
Commercial Relations between Bremen and the United States — a bridge between the Continents),
the exhibit opened Jan. 12 with a ceremony including a greeting of welcome by Edward D. Mc-
Laughlin, American consul general, and a detailed review by Wilhelm Kaisen, president of the
Bremen Senate which is the top governmental body in the North Sea port state. The American-
language texts of their speeches follow.

America - Bremen Ties

Translation of Address

By Wilhelm Kaisen

President of Senate of Bremen

Hst0r” TELLS us that around 1780 the first reg-
ular trade between Bremen and North America
developed. Thus it is 170 years since the first Bremen
sailing vessels began to call regularly at Baltimore, New
York, Philadelphia and other port cities of the United
States. These vessels, taking weeks of toil to cross the
Atlantic in the hire of Bremen businessmen, took on
cargoes of tobacco and cotton for Bremen after unload-
ing their freight of consumer goods of all kinds. The first
Bremen trade representatives opened their offices in
these cities.

The archives of the Bremen Senate show that from
about 1800 “to the establishment of the German Reich
in 1870, Bremen had appointed its own consuls in
Boston, New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New Orleans

and a number of other cities. By the same token, Bre-
men had engaged its own minister residents in Wash-
ington from the foundation of the Republic until the
establishment of the German Reich. These minister res-
idents were charged with furthering Bremen’s inter-
ests there, and they actually did a great deal to pave
the way for enduring friendly relations between Bre-
men and America.

The importance of the work of these Bremen repre-
sentatives will be better understood when one calls to
mind that George Washington, the first President of the
United States, in 1794 appointed Arnold Delius, a Bre-
men businessman, the first consul of the United

Continued on page 4

Welcome to Exhibit
by Edward D. McLaughlin

American Consul General, Bremen

T GIVES ME particular pleasure to welcome you at

the America House today on the occasion of the
opening of an exhibit featuring the development of
trade between my country and the State of Bremen. As
you know, it is a specific task of the American Con-
sulate General to assist German and American mer-
chants and to stimulate the trade which has benefited us
mutually since the first American Consul was appointed
in 1794.

The United States is Bremen’s principal trading part-
ner and has been for many years. We have had this
partnership for well over a century. The exhibit which
we shall view later on this afternoon will graphically
Point up what is already known to those of us inter-
ested in our commercial relations — namely the pres-
ent dollar deficit in the US-German balance of trade.

FEBRUARY 1953

Time does not permit us today to discuss the possible
solutions to the problems implied in the slogan “Trade
not Aid.” But in this connection I do wish to note that
the American Consulate General in Bremen, in coopera-
tion with the Bremen Chamber of Commerce, will spon-
sor next month here in this America House an export
promotion conference which we all hope will assist in
relieving the dollar shortage problem.

The very fact that somany Bremen and American busi-
ness men, officials and institutions have cooperated so
whole-heartedly in making this America House exhibit
possible is further evidence of the gratifying degree of
understanding which our long and pleasant commercial
relations have helped to promote between our two
peoples. It is, therefore, appropriate that an exhibit on
Bremen-US trade should be presented in the United
States Information Center — your America House. It is
my sincere wish that this exhibit may take its place
among our efforts of the past and our continuing efforts
of the present to serve the mutual interests of us all.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
Partial view of the exhibit in the Bremen America
House, showing a display depicting wheat imports from
America and a model of the United States Line’s

SS America. (AMCONGEN Bremen photos)

America — Bremen Ties

Continued from page 3

States in Bremen.* At the time the Free Han-
seatic City of Bremen was one of the many small states
making up the old Holy Roman Empire. Considering the
fact that the first law providing for the establishment
of American consulates abroad was not passed by Con-
gress until 1790, it is remarkable indeed that the United
States should have established one of its first consulates
in Bremen.

ODAY, in retrospect, we note that those were the

formative years of what we think of as typical Bre-
men overseas trade. It is true that Bremen had pre-
viously engaged in trade with other European coun-
tries and had also imported from England, Spain and
Portugal goods and merchandise from these countries
and their colonies. But apart from these less important
attempts, Bremen trade with overseas countries did not
really develop until the trade connections between Bre-
men and the United States became important.

In all this, however, it must be borne in mind that in
its beginnings this trade was also very modest in vol-
ume. We may safely assume that in 1800 only a small
number of Bremen businessmen had an inkling of the
vast possibilities that lay concealed in this field. The
trade began in 1788 when a grand total of three bales
of cotton was imported by way of Bremen. But little
more than 30 years later — in 1820 — as many as 3,100
bales were imported. By 1870, the annual import of cot-
ton .had risen to 200,000 bales, reaching a total of
3,000,000 bales in 1912. After establishing the Bremen
Cotton Exchange, Bremen grew to be the most impor-
tant cotton trading center of the European Continent.

However, it was not cotton alone to which Bremen’s
trade owed its growth. As early as 1795, American
trade statistics showed that Bremen ranked second in
importance in the interchange of goods with the United

*see “Oldest Consulate in Germany” by Robert P. Chalker in
Information Bulletin, May 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

States, being surpassed only by Great Britain. In Bre-
men, Consul Cassel, a businessman, pioneered in estab-
lishing the first direct trade connections with the United
States. Many other businessmen could similarly be men-
tioned here. In the beginning, they operated under
severe risks of many kinds, which, however, decreased as
the volume of business continued to grow from year
to year.

HE FIRST serious difficulties developed after 1810

when the world as it then existed was shaken by the
wars of Napoleon. The war spread to the Atlantic. An
example of the difficulties that beset trade is provided
by the fact that during the American-British War of
1812 transatlantic shipments to the United’ States were
blocked by the British Navy. In the end, Spain, Holland,
the young French Republic and the coalition of states
directed against France were involved in the naval war.

In the confusion of this war, trade and shipping be-
tween America and the European Continent and vice
versa was gradually taken over by the neutral powers,
which in this case included the German port cities.
Among these, Bremen was out in front, having had from
the very beginning excellent connections to the United
States. Trade enjoyed a boom that surpassed the bold-
est expectations. This was the golden age of Bremen
trade, thus christened in retrospect by Mayor Heinken
when he wrote Bremen’s history in 1820.

Nevertheless, this golden age was not without serious
risk for the ships on whose backs the trade was carried.
The sailing vessels had to break through the blockade
imposed by the British Navy, defying the Continental
blockade in order to keep overseas trade alive. As Mayor
Heineken has recorded, the businessmen of Bremen were
accustomed to dispatching five different copies of each
business letter by five different ships, in the hope that
at least one ship would succeed in breaking through the
blockade and eventually delivering the letter to the
American business fartner.

However the rise and growth of trade between the
United States and Bremen is also explained by fac-
tors other than the political conditions of the time. This
trade was aided by various other contributing circum-
stances. For one, the Bremen merchants had quickly un-
derstood the needs of the American market and the spe-
cial ways of their new American business partners. They
were assisted in this by a young generation of Bremen
businessmen who had emigrated to America and sent
home reliable information about conditions there. Being
young and enterprising, these men soon established their
own businesses in America.

Many of these establishments started out by being
merely branch offices of the Bremen parent companies
but soon tried to strike out on their own. Gradually they
developed into those large American businesses some of
which are still in existence today. But in the beginning
the close connection maintained between the parent and
branch companies was very valuable to both, and the
records show that in business matters the merchants of

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 8 ---
Baltimore and New York saw eye to eye with their busi-
ness friends in Bremen.

For Bremen, the most important trading city in Amer-
ica during that initial period was Baltimore rather than
New York, and it maintained this position for decades.
Dozens of businessmen in Baltimore were related with
Bremen businessmen by birth or marriage. Between the
two cities there was a constant exchange of business in-
formation, the young sons of Bremen merchants being
apprenticed to commercial establishments in Baltimore
and vice versa. Even today some traces are left of the
former close ties between the two cities. On the oc-
casion of my visit to America three years ago, I visited
the Bremen colony in Baltimore and found there the
names of old Bremen business firms and families which
are extinct in Bremen today.

HE CLOSE connections between Bremen and Balti-

more were strengthened even more by the tobacco
trade which gradually came to rival cotton as the most
important staple traded through Bremen. Around 1830
Bremen became the foremost trading center in all of Eu-
rope for tobacco, most of which was imported from the
United States and Brazil. At that time up to 45,000,000
pounds of raw tobacco and 11,000,000 pounds of tobacco
ribs and stems were imported. By 1878, these figures had
risen to 308,000,000 pounds, worth 65,000,000 goldmarks.

At the same time, Bremen became a center of cigar
manufacture. In 1872 as many as 290 cigar factories were
operating in Bremen, employing, inclusive of piecework
done at home by individual families, nearly 10,000 per-
sons. Considering Bremen’s total population figure of
60,000 at that time, the close commercial relations be-
tween Bremen and the United States that existed even
then become apparent.

In addition to tobacco and cotton a number of other
import goods contributed to a significant increase of mu-
tual trade between Bremen and the United States at the
turn of the century. Of American export goods it was
animal and mineral oil that at times surpassed even the
volume of trade in lard, tobacco and cotton, further se-
curing Bremen’s top position as a trading center. I men-
tioned before that Bremen was at that time, owing to its
trade with the United States, the largest tobacco trad-
ing center in the world and the most important cotton
Port on the European Continent. It had also gained
world importance in the oil and grain trades, which in
Bremen served to activate many other branches of busi-
ness. For example, the Bremen shipping lines greatly
benefited from the oil trade located in their home port.

HE BIGGEST Bremen business establishment in the

United States was H. H. Meier & Co. It was founded
in 1797 by Caspar Meier, the eldest son of Diedrich
Meier, who was then mayor of Bremen and was himself
active in trade in Bremen. His son Caspar founded a
branch office in New York at the turn of the century.
While in the course of time each business came to op-
erate independently they continued to be linked by a

FEBRUARY 1953

contract of business cooperation. This firm later devel-
oped into the North German Lloyd, whose founder was
one H. H. Meier of a younger generation. Up to our time
the North German Lloyd, with its seat of business in
Bremen, has been active as one of the great shipping
lines of the world, deserving particular credit for its
work in connection with shipping to the United States.

The rise of Bremen shipping is to a large extent due to
the foresight and initiative of Mayor Johann Schmidt,
the founder of Bremerhaven. After the completion in
1830 of the first port basin in Bremerhaven, the Amer-
ican steamer “Draper” was the first vessel to dock in the
port.

Under these favorable circumstances it was not sur-
prising that the first shipping line founded for the pur-
pose of operating steamer service between America and
the European Continent should have been the “Ocean
Steam Navigation Company,” which was incorporated
with American and German capital and chose Bremer-
haven for its first European port of call.

T IS A matter of historical record that in 1847 the ar-

rival in Bremerhaven of the SS Washington of the
Ocean Steam Navigation Company marked the opening
of the first regular mail steamer service and at the same
time the first regular passenger service. But this com-
pany was not fated to live long. It became the victim of
the crisis in the American economy. After ten years the
North German Lloyd became its successor, being the
first large shipping line in Germany that had purposely
abandoned the idea of shipping by sail and instead had
based its operation on the exclusive use of steam vessels.

As mentioned before, the founder of the North Ger-
man Lloyd was H. H. Meier, one of the most able and
important merchants of the 19th century. He combined
in his person all that which was later separated again to
form different business enterprises. He was ship owner
as well as trader in tobacco and in cotton. He also did
business in oil and in addition managed a large business
in assorted merchandise. He had great experience in

Paul D. Bethel (center) director of the Bremen America
House, explains one of exhibit’s charts to Mr. Kaisen
(second from right) and Hermann Apelt (far right), Bre-
men senator for ports and shipping, while Mr. McLaugh-
lin (left) looks on.

--- Page 9 ---
handling emigration, and his business experience had
broadened and matured by his connections to the Amer-
ican branch of his Bremen business establishments. His
ships transported emigrants to the United States and
brought back merchandise. All these factors proved to be
of tremendous importance for the North German Lloyd
during its first years of growth.

HE FACT that it was Bremen which pioneered in the

field of regular shipping service to the United States is
admitted even by Hamburg. At that time, Hamburg had
close connections with England and preferred to
strengthen its business ties to South America, the Med-
iterranean and Asia. I may be permitted to quote from a
book published under the title of Hamburg, Deutschland
und die Welt by Professor Schramm, Hamburg historian,
in which the following is said about the respective trade
connections of Hamburg and Bremen a hundred years
ago:

“However the Hamburg flag at that time (about 1840)
enjoyed small esteem in Atlantic shipping in compar-
ison to the Bremen flag, which was somewhat more im-
portant, even though it appeared on the ocean less often
than the American flag. But in 1850 Bremen’s ship fleet
was about two-thirds bigger than the Hamburg fleet. For
the first time in 1857 the harbor of the Weser City drew
ahead of the Hamburg in the cotton trade and has held
this position up to this time. Bremen drew ahead, too,
of the Rhine harbors and so gained the first place for its
Cotton Exchange in Central Europe. As Bremen also
gained a leading position in the tobacco trade at this
time, the characteristic differences that marked the trade
of Bremen and Hamburg first became apparent and con-
tinued from then on.“

Thus far the statements of the Hamburg historian.
Later was added the transportation overseas of countless
thousands of emigrants who desired to leave their native
countries for various political, economic and social rea-
sons and find a new home across the ocean. Gradually
Bremen became the foremost German port of emigra-
tion. It was also concerned with the well-being of the
men who used its ports and shipping installations in
their search for a new home in the New World.

S EARLY AS 1832 Bremen passed its first law

providing for the proper treatment and care of the
emigrants, thus setting an example for similar legisla-
tion all over the world. The early enforcement of this
protective legislation and also the fact that the majority
of emigrants were leaving for the United States with
whose ports Bremen had such close connection, gave
Bremen a good reputation and made it the favorite port
of departure for emigrating aliens.

Emigration through Bremen reached a total of 60,000
in 1862 and gradually increased to a peak of 200,000 an-
nually. By 1913 the North German Lloyd had taken more
than 10,000,000 passengers across the ocean. This stream
of immigration had tremendously speeded up the process

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of industrialization in progress in the United States. It is
no exaggeration to say that the European immigrants
formed the basis for the economic growth of the United
States, which is out of all comparison to anything that
the economic history of mankind has recorded until now.

Bremen, too, had its share in this unique growth
within the last 100 years. Both the old country and the
New World beyond the ocean benefited by Bremen’s
trade and shipping, in the course of their operation dur-
ing the past century and until World War I.

It needs to be emphasized here that the shipping of
freight to the United States was not neglected. Quite a
number of shipping lines, particularly those operating
out of the great cotton ports in the South, first owed
their existence to the heavy demand on shipping space
that arose as a consequence of Bremen business activ-
ities. In 1886, the first ocean-going tanker in the world
was built in Bremen. Its construction had been ordered
by Franz Schuette, one of the founders of the German-
American Oil Company. After this tanker had pioneered
in proving that it paid to ship oil overseas in tank ships,
more tankers were built, and soon the first small tankers
were built and combined into a fleet, the first of its kind
to ply the ocean.

HIS FAVORABLE development of trade and business

between Bremen and the United States was suddenly
interrupted by World War I. An attempt was made in
Bremen in 1916 to break the British blockade by means
of a 700-ton freight-carrying submarine. This vessel,
built in Bremen and named Deutschland, tried, under its
Captain Koenig, to reestablish the trade connections
broken by the war. After carrying chemicals and dyes
from Bremen to Baltimore, it was successful in taking
back to Bremen a full load of rubber, copper and cotton.
But this brave attempt was hardly even a symbolic act.
The normal flow of trade could not possibly be main-
tained by submarines.

When in 1918 the German merchant marine was lost
altogether, many old business connections between Bre-
men and the United States lapsed and died for lack of
contact. A new beginning had to be made. The monetary
inflation which beset Germany after World War I soon
showed the extent to which Bremen still felt bound to
the United States. In 1923 and 1924, when inflation was
at its worst and the nation was still reluctant to reform
the currency, the Bremen Senate in 1923 was first in
establishing a sound currency—the Bremen dollar which
I am sure we all remember. This Bremen dollar was
based on the amount of US dollars which Bremen had
to its credit at various banks. The Bremen dollar was in
circulation until the new Rentenmark was issued by
the nation.

REMEN helped to usher in the new Air Age by
undertaking the east-west flight across the Atlantic
in 1928. The successful airplane, called Bremen, was

Continued on page 0

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 10 ---
Investment in Democracy

By Haynes R. Mahoney

Information Officer, Nuremberg Public Affairs Region

(© AFFORD a critical inspection and encourage an

intelligent appraisal of the results of the monies the
United States has invested in promoting local dem-
ocratic institutions in Germany, HICOG’s Public Af-
fairs Office in Nuremberg took a score of German news-
papermen on tour of some of the special projects in
northern Bavaria.

This rural, conservative area of approximately 3,800,000
inhabitants is one of the most secluded and poorest in
western Germany, lacking in wealthy industrial centers,
except for Nuremberg and Schweinfurt, and bordering
on two hundred miles of the Soviet Zone of Germany
and communist Czechoslovakia.

Yet the newsmen learned that HICOG’s DM 3,800,000
(equivalent to $904,400) granted to 65 projects in this
region had been more than matched by. German con-
tributions in land, building materials and cash in order
to take advantage of the American assistance.

HE US FUNDS for these projects were from nearly

DM 54,000,000 ($12,852,000) in counterpart funds—
German currency accruing to the US Government in
return for dollar economic aid provided Germany—
allocated to 473 special projects in Western Germany
and West Berlin to assist fledging institutions of dem-
ocracy in German cities and villages achieve stability
and influence.

The “HICOG Special Projects Program” was initiated
by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy in early 1951
to build, refurbish and equip schools, universities, stu-
dent dormitories, youth homes, community centers and
other local institutions, In nearly every case, the Ger-
man applicants put at least fifty percent of the cost in
cash or materials. Every application was carefully
reviewed by American officials.

After the tour last fall of the projects in northern
Bavaria, the consensus of the newsmen’s opinion as ex-

pressed in lengthy newspaper stories was that “the
American funds helped Germans help themselves to
strengthen grassroots democracy.”

Among the score of representative projects, which
they visited, was the Vocational School at Wunsiedel,
a backwoods town located at the very edge of the free
world, only a few miles from the “Iron Curtain.” Dr.
Karl Borchardt, principal of the school, had long been
dissatisfied with the state of Germany’s vocational
training as provided 90 percent of Bavaria’s youth who
were too poor to go to high school and university. Leav-
ing school at 14, these youth took apprentice jobs in
factories and farms and spent one day a week in the
vocational school studying only the technical aspects
of their trade. No thought was given to teaching them
civics and preparing them for responsible citizenship
in a society in which they would constitute a majority.

FTER GETTING the backing of town and state, Dr.
Borchardt went to HICOG with some new ideas.
He wanted to expand his instruction from the four or
five trades then offered to twenty or more, so that every
youth would have a reasonable expectancy to find work
which he liked. He wanted not only to serve the
youngsters from the environs of Wunsiedel, but from
the entire county. He wanted to develop the interest and
support of parents for the school—unheard of in prewar
Germany—and most important of all, he wanted to
train youth for good citizenship. A grant of DM 200,000
($47,600) from HICOG, plus the equivalent of DM
600,000 ($142,800) in land and building materials from
German sources, has enabled him to build modern
workshops, classrooms and living quarters, and to realize
his ideas.
The newspapermen were impressed with the student-
made charts, drawings, and outlines on the walls and
stacked in classrooms which showed the composition of

Examples of assistance given by HICOG’s Special Projects Fund: (left) Modern laundry in a farm women’s com-
munity center. (right) Classroom for bakers as one of score of trades taught in the Wunsiedel Vocational School.

(USIS photos)

--- Page 11 ---
local and national governments, the platforms of the
political parties in the last local election, and the results
of the election. It was obvious that these boys and
girls were not only learning to be electricians, bakers
and seamstresses, but that they were learning how to
vote, how they are governed and how to organize for
civic action,

Another innovation in the Wunsiedel school, which
HICOG insisted upon in all its grants to vocational
schools, was the institution of a full-time, five-day-a-
week class for vocational students. This was designed
as an experiment to demonstrate to German authorities
the need and advantage of providing more education to
the greater part of their youth.

ECOGNIZING that universities would produce a ma-

jor portion of Germany’s future leader’s, HICOG put
a substantial part of its Special Projects funds into the
institutions of higher learning, primarily for student wel-
fare. This was deemed urgent because of the alarming sit-
uation of the majority of university students, who worked
part-time, lived in rented rooms—sometimes garrets or
cellars—and had few facilities for developing the social
interests and healthy community spirit which is an
automatic part of American campus life.

At Erlangen University, the German correspondents
inspected a six-story student dormitory, housing 300
young men and women, which was built with the aid of
DM 100,000 ($23,800) of HICOG funds. In addition to its
airy architectural style, and modern living facilities, the
building included a large meeting hall and reading
lounges on every floor. Residents of each floor elect their
own representative to a student council which admin-
isters the student home and organizes a yearly program
of concerts, lectures and forums to get students out of
their academic specialities into a democratic community
life. Such innovations in student living were prerequi-
sites for every HICOG grant to a university.

New student home at Erlangen, assisted by HICOG
funds, houses 300 students and provides facilities for ex-
tra-curricula activities organized by the students.

(USIS photo)

A abeniinac onset

Labor-union youth center near Nuremberg provides
summer vacations for working youth from all parts of
western Germany and training courses in citizenship
and responsible labor leadership in the winter.

(USIS photo)

In Hirschaid, Mayor Georg Kiigel proudly showed the
newsmen through a new building which had become a
meeting point for farm women from miles around. The
renovated three-story building was equipped with elec-
tric washing machines, pressers, canning equipment, a
bakery kitchen, sewing machines, showers and bathtubs.
The building also included a pleasantly furnished meet-
ing room equipped with a small library. The sociological
signifiance of this institution was quickly apparent when:
one women explained: “It used to take me more than
two days to do the family washing. Now I can do it all
in a half-day, even though I have to walk a half hour
from the next village.”

OR THE first time, the overburdened farm wife of

this community has a little free time of her own, to
meet with her friends, to develop a little social life, and
perhaps, to read a newspaper and think about the
public affairs of her community. Already a local women’s
organization has developed to use the meeting room
upstairs, which is also in frequent demand by youth
groups and for town meetings. Through such small be-
ginnings as this farm women are beginning to free
themselves from household slavery and wield their
rightful influence in the community.

At Lohr on the Main River, newsmen saw a new
community center which has now become the civic and
social hub of village life. Equipped with a large audito-
rium, film projection apparatus, a small restaurant and
offices for local organizations this center is constantly
used for many events ranging from public forums on civic
improvements to community dances. A total of DM 90,000
($21,400) was contributed from the HICOG Special Pro-
jects funds, with a German outlay of DM _ 133,000
($31,654). Continued on page 12

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 12 ---
MSA Help to Farmers

By Henry A. Goodman

Assistant Editor, Information Bulletin

Wr THE American Professor Doctor picked up
the chicken, German farmer Karl Mueller was sur-
prised. But when the professor, after studying the fowl,
told its age, egg-laying capacity, health and diet, Herr
Mueller was also astonished.

The professor was Dr. Harry Kauffman, a German-
speaking poultry expert from Pennsylvania State Col-
lege. He was visiting Germany for three months under
the Marshall Plan Technical Assistance Program, and
had just demonstrated a bit of American “know-how”
to some German poultry experts and a farmer.

To the Germans, his conduct was somewhat unconven-
tional for a professor doctor. The “know-how” he was
showing was not in giving a biography of a chicken,
which any German poultry professor could have done
too, but in convincing an average farmer that advice
from a “theoretican” could be very practical. It was the
first time the farmer had seen a professor actually
handle a chicken, and this greatly increased Herr Muel-
ler’s respect for the American expert’s knowledge.

Actually, Dr. Kauffman’s demonstration of profes-
sorial public relations was merely incidental to the real
purpose of his visit, which was to help the German
poultry industry increase production. Nevertheless,
since his visit in 1950, the new demand for practical
demonstrations by German experts has been felt in
academic agricultural circles. Many German professors:
who formerly simply lectured farmers, for as long as
three hours at a time, have since found it expedient to
adopt variations of the American method of simultaneous
lecturing and demonstrating, and following this with
a discussion.

E HAVE HAD about 13 American experts like Dr.

Kauffman since the technical-assistance program
started in 1949,” says Frederic O. Sargent, the Mutual
Security Agency Mission’s agricultural technical as-
sistance officer. “Dr. Kauffmann is only one of several
who have demonstrated why US agricultural extension
methods are so effective and thus given the Germans
ideas for improving their own extension techniques.”

In addition to bringing American experts to Germany,
the technical-assistance program has sent a larger num-
ber of Germans to the United States to gain practical
knowledge of American work in a great many fields,
such as farm machinery, plant disease, artifical insemi-
nation, forestry, agricultural information and organizing
farm credit institutions.

FEBRUARY 1953

As a direct result of his trip to the United States,
Franz Winter, farm director of the North West German
Radio Network (NWDR) in Cologne, set up marketing
programs telling farmers prices being offered for produce
at central markets throughout West Germany.

Mr. Winter visited Iowa State College, various Iowa
radio stations, the Universities of Illinois and Minnesota.
His studies of American dissemination of agricultural
information showed him the importance to farmers of
daily marketing information to prevent buyers’ taking
advantage of farmers’ ignorance of prices they can
reasonably expect. German farmers had been getting
such information, much too late to be useful, through
the newspapers.

[OME DIATELY after his return to Germany, Mr. Win-
ter started a daily ten-minute morning marketing
program, telling the preceding day’s closing prices, and
a short midday broadcast giving major prices as they
stood during the morning. Other German radio networks
and stations have now followed Mr. Winter’s lead and
marketing programs have become indispensible to most
German farmers, as they are for American farmers.

Not all technical assistance trips to the United States
by German agricultural experts have had such striking
immediate results, but they are already contributing
towards the solution of some long-term or chronic
problems of German agriculture.

For example, Dr. Wolfgang Klatt of the Wuerttem-
berg-Baden plant protection bureau in Stuttgart went
with some German colleagues to the United States in

Group of MSA technical-assistance exchangees (left

side of table) being briefed at AID headquarters in Bonn
by American and German Marshall Plan officials before
departure for the United States.

(AID photo by Albert)

--- Page 13 ---
the summer of 1950. They studied control of plant
diseases. Dr. Klatt was particularly concerned about
St. Jose scale, which has been attacking fruit trees and
bushes in Germany since 1946. More than 45,000 far-
mers in 700 towns have had losses caused by this scale.
The size of the loss is indicated by the fact that at pre-
sent the German federal and state governments are
spending about DM 3,000,000 ($714,000) yearly on control
of this pest.

Dr. Klatt brought back from America a method of
biological insect control previously unknown in Ger-
many. It is a parasite which attacks the St. Jose scale.
With the aid of Marshall Plan funds an “insectorium”
was built at Stuttgart to breed and experiment with
such pest parasites. The first parasites were used against
St. Jose scale in 1952, and it is still too early to give
final results. Dr. Klatt expects, however, that this new
system of pest control will be a major contribution to
the elimination of St. Jose scale, and other plant pests,
in West Germany.

IG DIVIDENDS are gradually resulting from studies

of milk hygene regulations in the United States.
German dairy experts visiting America on the technical
assistance program have brought back recommendations
which have resulted in new German federal and state
laws promoting improved milk quality. Under these
regulations, drinking milk is carefully separated from
milk for processing. The drinking milk meets standards
prescribed in the United States for Grade A, and the
consumption of milk in Germany has been increased,

Prof. H. H. Kauffman, (left) MSA visiting poultry con-
sultant, talking with the late Dr. Hans-Georg Littmann,
founder and director of AID, the German agricultural
information service, during conference in Frankfurt.
(AID photo by Albert)

Franz Winter, farm director of the NWDR radio net-
work, shown in the Cologne studio during daily broad-
cast to German farmers, a service he learned about in

the United States. (MSA photo by Heine)

even though the price of drinking milk has gone up
slightly.

Through these regulations, Germans are now pro-
tected against poor and disease-carrying milk, and thus
they feel freer to use milk, thereby making up for
protein deficiencies in their diet. Accustomed as they
are to hygenic milk, Americans can hardly realize the
significance of such a change in a country where ap-
proximately half the dairy cattle have tuberculosis.

Besides technical assistance projects in which Amer-
icans come to Germany and Germans visit the United
States, there is a third type in which Germans visit
another European country for a short time to. study
some aspect of agricultural technology in which that
country excels. For example, a team visited Holland
to study tractor cooperatives before similar organiza-
tions were set up in Germany. A study of rural youth
advisory services in Austria was made by German fed-
eral officials who were establishing a similar program
in Germany.

Agricultural technical assistance projects are c0o-
ordinated by the Mutual Security Agency Mission’s
Food and Agriculture Division in Mehlem. A similar
program in the fields of industry and labor is carried
out by the Productivity Division. In the case of the
agricultural projects, it must be clear before the project
is approved that it will bring about an increase in food
production or food availabilities within two years.

gues PROJECTS are financed largely by MSA funds
with contributions by the Germans. An average
project with six German experts spending ten weeks

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 14 ---
in the United States costs the American taxpayer
$10,000 for expenses in the US (paid out of the MSA
budget), and DM 30,000 ($7,140) applied by the German
Federal Government out of its Marshall Plan Minis-
try’s counterpart funds. In thirty percent of the pro-
jects, the German government is required to put DM
4.20 ($1.00) into the German counterpart fund, for fu-
ture projects, for every $1.00 spent by MSA in Amer-
ica for the trip.

The dollars spent on such projects are used for per
diem living expense payments to team members while
in the US, for their transportation in the US, and for
books, films and other materials they will use on their
return to Germany. The German mark counterpart
funds are used to pay expenses incurred in Germany,
transportation to and from the United States, project
follow-up activities and publication of project reports.

The Food, Agriculture and Forestry Ministry orig-
inates plans and requests for technical assistance pro-
jects and submits them to the MSA Mission Food and
Agriculture Division. If the Americans at the MSA
office in Mehlem, in European headquarters in Paris,
and main headquarters in Washington agree that the
project will bring about a rapid increase in agricul-
tural productivity, it is approved. In order to show
how the project will help food production, the Ger-
man ministry must describe the specific problem to
be solved and must outline a comprehensive program
for the participants to undertake when they return
to Germany.

The MSA office in Washington plans and organizes
the trip while the German Federal and state agricul-
ture officials select participants, who must be lead-
ing experts in their respective fields, or individuals
whose key positions give them wide influence in Ger-
many, enabling them to have a good follow-up pro-
gram. Sometimes the German teams join with similar
team from other nations, and 30 or more experts from
as many as eight or ten countries join together in
America in a study group.

OST TECHNICAL assistance participants, when they

arrive in America, are given a “short course.” Ex-
perts of several nationalities join with the Germans in
these courses, usually given by one of the large agri-
cultural universities in the United States. The technical
assistance experts meet with leading Americans in their
work, have laboratory sessions, lectures, practical work
and field trips to several different parts of the United
States.

In general the visitors spend a few days in Wash-
ington, meeting representatives of the US Department
of Agriculture and national farm organizations. Then
they spend a month or more at one state university or
bureau, where they study American techniques in their
special field. After this, they visit farms, have a special

FEBRUARY 1953

field trip or attend a national conference dealing with
their specialty. This is followed by a visit to at least
one more state for two or three weeks and the return
to Washington for a week of final discussions and clarifi-
cation or elaboration of particular problems. In Wash-
ington, the visitors are given pamphlets, film strips,
books, posters and other materials they may need for
study or lecturing when they return to Germany.

Since the whole purpose of the trip has been to pro-
mote widespread adoption of new knowledge by German
farmers, the participants are expected to pursue a com-
prehensive follow-up program after their return.

The first item of business is drawing up a report.
Chapters of this are assigned to various members of
the team, and the report, when finished, is published
by the new German agricultural information agency
(AID) located near Bonn. AID distributes highlights
of the report to the country’s agricultural press.

Following this, a conference is held with the team
members and experts in the field concerned. When-
ever possible such meetings are tied in with a general
national conference in the field concerned, so that all
interested parties in western Germany may be in-
formed of the TA team’s recommendations and new
knowledge.

NOTHER ASPECT of the follow-up program is the

lecture bureau just getting underway in the Fed-
eral Food and Agriculture Ministry. The ministry
is making an annotated directory of speakers, includ-
ing everyone who has been in the United States or
other countries on the technical assistance program.
Any group interested in a speaker can then find the
man it wants, where to contact him, whether or not
he will lecture with slides, and so on.

At the state level, the technical assistance partici-
pants are expected to get out in the field and talk with
agricultural teachers, farmer -groups, individuals—in
fact, with anyone and everyone they can interest. It is
usually only here that the experts can promote the
adoption of new methods they have learned in the
United States or European countries they have visited.
The state agriculture authorities aid the technical-
assistance returnees in their efforts to reach the people.

By the end of 1952, there had been 39 agricultural
technical assistance projects in which 173 German ex-
perts visited the United States for extensive study
trips. During 1951 and 1952, 234 Germans visited other
European countries for short periods in 47 different
projects. While the figures do not appear to be very
large, the technical assistance projects are contributing
substantially to increased German productivity and are
introducing methods which are leading to genuine long-

term improvement in German life.
+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Communists Show Concern over Refugees

IHE CONCERN of Soviet Zone authorities over the

continued mass exodus of refugees from the So-
viet-occupied areas of Germany is clearly reflected in
recent Eastern propaganda trends, according to a press
survey report in early February by the Public Af-
fairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG.

Treatment of the problem did an abrupt about-face
at the end of January, switching from efforts to laugh
off the streams of refugees to fervent propaganda
designed to encourage refugees to return to the “Ger-
man Democratic Republic” (name given locally to Ger-
man regime in Soviet Zone).

Refugees are currently streaming into West Berlin
at the rate of more than 1,000 per day. Only a hand-
ful have responded to date to the Communist “all is
forgiven” overtures.

Throughout most of 1952 the Soviet-licensed press
ignored the embarrassing matter of refugees, although
the number of persons fleeing westward crowded
10,000 each month. Finally in September, after the
monthly refugee stream had risen to more than 15,000,
it was no longer possible to ignore the problem.

N SEPT. 8, the official Soviet organ Taeglische

Rundschau (East Berlin) carried an article by “N.
Orlov,” a pseudonym for leading Soviet occupation offi-
cials, which proclaimed the official version that many
more persons were fleeing into the Soviet Zone than
out of it, and those few who did leave the zone were
largely criminals and ne’er-do-wells.

As the mass exodus continued during the autumn
and winter, this attempt to pass the “flood of refugees”
off lightly was followed by dozens of articles warning
East Zone residents of the frightful fate awaiting them
if they chose to flee to the “Golden West.” Alledgedly
misery, crime, prostitution or compulsory service as an
“imperialist agent” or in the ranks of the Foreign Le-
gion were all they would find in the West.

The failure of this propaganda campaign can be
measured in the increase in the number of refugees
from 16,000 in December to 25,000 in January.

In the face of this development, treatment of the
problem in the Soviet-licensed press did an abrupt
about-face at the end of January. Unable to prevent East
Zone residents from leaving, Soviet Zone authorities
began a desperate effort to persuade at least some re-
fugees to return to their homes and workbenches.

The new effort was launched on Jan. 29, 1953, with
the Berliner Zeitung editorial. The piece showed little
respect for Orlov’s Taeglische Rundschau views. Orlov’s
“criminals” had become honest but misguided citizens.

EGINNING with the flat admission, “In the last
half year several thousand persons left the Ger-

man Democratic Republic for West Berlin,” the writer

INFORMATION BULLETIN

continued, “We accuse Reuter and the American occu-
pation authorities of consciously and shamelessly push-
ing these largely innocent persons into misfortune .. .
In view of the human tragedy... we open wide the door
for the return of the betrayed to the German Demo-
cratic Republic. All those who acted thoughtlessly can
and should come back. Our officials will be generous
in extending new residence permits... Yes, we go
even further. Even those who committed a misde-
meanor can be rehabilitated again by submitting to a
just punishment.”

This new policy was underlined by Minister Presi-
dent Otto Grotewohl in his important budget speech
before the East Zone so-called “People’s Assembly.”
Neues Deutschland (East Berlin, Feb. 5) reports him as
saying, “The government is ready to take back those
persons who thoughtlessy became victims of Western
propaganda and left the Republic.” In this connec-
tion, he admitted that “Western propaganda” had made
inroads on “scientists, technicians, researchers, physi-
cians, politicians, yes, even members of the government.”

The HICOG survey points out that these changes
in the attitude of the Soviet Zone authorities reflect
a growing concern over the mass exodus from the
Soviet Zone, a concern that stems from manpower
shortages and obvious loss of Communist prestige.

Particularly significant in this connection is the fact
that among thousands of refugees streaming out of
the alleged “workers’ and young people’s paradise”
the largest groups are consistently workers and young
people, as well as farmers and housewives. These citi-
zens and “little people” are acutely aware of the dis-
crepency between Communist promises of a “bright
future” and actual physical and psychological condi-
tions in the Soviet Zone of Occupation. + END

Investment in Democracy
Continued from page 8

HICOG has put great emphasis on assistance to these
types of institutions, which usually provide the only
facilities for developing civic action projects and a com-
munity spirit in small towns.

The special projects scattered throughout Western
German and West Berlin of course knock only a chip off
the mountainous problem of developing German grass-
roots democracy. But the majority of them are “pilot-
models”, innovations, guiding lights for future builders
and organizers. It is HICOG’s hope that their influence
will radiate, and their example will stimulate repetitions
in additional communities.

On each project, the newsmen found a bronze plaque,
reading: “This building was constructed with the aid

of the people of the United States of America.”
+END

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 16 ---
.

Two of the new community centers built in Bavaria: (left) in Goesdorf and (right) in Hawangen.

Rural Community Centers

by Frank H. Jonas

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HIS IS THE story of the Haus der Baeuerin. To

translate these German words literally as the
“house of the farmer wife” might produce an awk-
ward and misleading image in the reader's mind. Act-
ually the Haus der Baeuerin is a community building
—a rural center where the housewives of farmers,
workers, and businessmen may wash and iron their
family clothes, can their fruit, prepare and put up ap-
ple juice, bake their bread, mend their sacks, slaughter
and cure their meat. The men come here too to do some
of this work. All the family members can take their
baths or showers there.

It is a social center where the wives while washing
their clothes can liven up the daily chores with chat-
ter—and gossip. The women exchange recipes. They
learn from each other. Social tensions are reduced—
poor and well-to-do alike use the same facilities—and
social equality is bred. In some instances as many as
60 per cent of those who use the facilities are not na-
tives of the community.

B” THE SOCIAL life takes on more formal aspects.

In each building is a conference room usually equipped
with a library. Here youth, women and adult social
sport and educational groups meet for weekly or spe-
cial meetings. Here the citizens come to read and bor-
row books.

For example, in the Heindlschlag center, the confer-
ence room is also used for civil marriage ceremonies.
Food for the school-feeding program is brought here
and distributed. It is also used for handwork instruc-
tion, school festivals, adult educational programs and
vocational courses. Films and slides are frequently
shown in the conference room.

In many buildings the mayor has his office and the
city council holds its weekly meetings. In some build-

FFBRUARY 1953

ings the fire department is housed. The rural center
often supplies space to the city government for the
carrying out of its civic functions.

Although the Haus der Baeuerin may be character-
ized as a movement which has spread rapidly since
1949, particularly in the state of Bavaria, it began in
the state of Wuerttemberg in 1928 under the leader-
ship of Professor Muenzinger, who first demonstrated
the community use of washing machines. Due to Pro-
fessor Muenzinger’s initiative the movement spread
throughout southern Germany. Bath and shower facil-
ities and a room for repairing sacks were added. Na-
tional funds assisted during the ensuing years and the
movement continued to spread throughout Germany.

FTER THE German collapse in 1945, the south Ger-

man states again took up the task, and in 1949 the
state of Bavaria began its big program which now in-
cludes 71 centers, either completed or under construc-
tion. There are more than 800 communities in Bavaria,
all of which could make excellent use of these rural
community centers.

The Bavarian state Ministry of Nutrition, Agriculture
and Forestry, with the cooperation of its local agencies
concerned with the furthering of rural home economics,
has placed its experience and knowledge at the dis-
posal of the local communities. The resources and fa-
cilities of an extensive network of the 108 agricultural
vocational schools in Bavaria have been utilized to pro-
vide instruction, suggestions and advice to officials,
organizations, schools and communities in the develop-
ment of the program.

The community centers are furnished and equipped
under the direction of the Bavarian state department
of agriculture. A workshop or seminar of experts is
planned at the present time to provide specialized

13 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
materials for community leaders who wish to improve
their facilities or to promote a community center. The
seminar will work with the Federal Research Council
for Home Economics, the German Board for Technology
in Agriculture and the Agricultural Home Economics
Evaluation and Information Service.

Frequently the idea of constructing a community
center comes from the county and state governmentai
officials, agricultural vocational teachers and advisers,
farmers’ organizations and their women auxiliaries or
from local officials themselves and the representatives
of local schools and agricultural interest groups.

HE REACTION or response of the public is not al-

ways so spontaneous and integrating; the residents
frequently have to be sold on the idea with good plan-
ning and considerable effort. Some few residents see,
or are told, and then are encouraged to observe how
successfully other units are operating. Bus trips are
promoted and leading citizens are taken on excursions
to examine an operating Haus der Baeuerin. Mass meet-
ings are held, lecturers are called in, films are shown,
and the idea takes root and begins to grow like a farm-
er’s crop. Then an advisory council or committee of
three to eight key governmental officials and civic-
minded citizens is set up and the work begins.

In Steinhoering, a small rural town of 2,313 inhab-
itants in the county of Ebersberg near Munich, the ad-
visory group consists of the head of the women’s aux-
iliary of the county farmers’ association, the head of
the nearby home economics school for girls, the head
of the combined Elshering and Steinhoering farmer’s
cooperative, the mayor, the district head of the Bavar-
ian farmer’s federation and the local leader of the
farmers’ association.

ONEY FOR the building and equipment came from
various sources: DM 20,000 ($4,760) each in. the
form of a donation from the Bavarian Farmers’ Fed-
eration and the state Ministry of Agriculture; DM 5,000
($1,190) from the county; DM 4,000 ($952) each from a
large farmers’ seed and implement firm and the gov-
ernmental district of Upper Bavaria; DM 3,000 ($714)

each from the city council and the local dairy coopera-
tive; DM 1,000 ($238) from an important insurance com-
pany; and DM 1,970 ($469) from neighboring dairies.
The United States provided DM 13,348 ($3,177) from
the Special Projects Fund.* The owner of the center
is the farmers’ cooperative bank of Steinhoering, al-
though in most cases the owner is the community itself
represented by its civic government.

The farmers themselves dug the foundation and furn-
ished transportation, furnishing a total of 1,400 working
hours to the project. Architectural plans were made by
the county architect. The builder kept his costs and
fees to a minimum. The agricultural extension serv-
ice of Bavaria assisted with technical knowledge, con-
tinuing to render service after completion of the phys-
ical plant by disseminating information on the modern-
ization of farms and land reform programs.

The contribution of the Bavarian state agricultural
department is represented by a demonstration specialist
and a county agricultural vocational guidance counselor.
The demonstration specialist, with offices in Munich,
visits the centers, advising among other things on equip-
ment and furnishings while the vocational guidance ex-
pert, who teaches during the day, gives lectures on farm
problems and land use, usually in the evenings. Both
the demonstration specialist for Bavaria and the voca-
tional adviser at the Memmingen agricultural vocational
school, who is a specialist on grasslands use have visited
in the United States on an exchange program, bringing
back to Germany many sound ideas which they are
making available to German farmers and their families.

HE STEINHOERING center is almost completely

equipped. Its users are proud of the cold storage
plant and boast of a modern meat-smoking unit, but its
baking facilities are not being used at the present
because of opposition of two local bakers. However, a
similar rivalry in Heindlschlag was resolved by a com-
promise — the center’s bakery is used by the house-
wives principally during the rush season such as at

*Also see “Investment in Democracy” on page 7.

In Kirchberg center: (left) wash room and (right) fruit presses.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

(all photos from Bavarian State Ministry of Agriculture)

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 18 ---
Also in the Kirchberg community center: (left) community and conference room and (right) corner of social room.

Christmas time. A better relationship between the baker
and the townspeople is credited to the potential com-
petition of the center’s bakery.

One rural center has American-type storage lockers,
the gifts of an interested group in the United States.
Gifts of this kind are typical of the help these centers
are receiving from private sources abroad.

The Steinhoering center, during the first six months
of its operation, has been self-supporting, mainly be-
cause of the minimum cost to users and good manage-
ment. The cost for a four weeks’ wash for five persons
is about DM 5 ($1.20) as compared with a private laun-
dry’s eight to ten marks. Each washhouse is managed by
a married couple who receive a comfortable apartment
and about DM 200 ($47.60) monthly for their services.

HE UNITED States, through HICOG’s Special Pro-

jects Program, has made grants to 23 projects total-
ing DM 231,460 ($55,087). These grants have been made
only after all other sources of revenue have been ex-
ploited. They have generally served to stimulate interest
in going ahead with a project, many times carrying it
over difficult financial obstacles. Exact periodic account-
ings must be made to US authorities as to how the
money was spent and for what specific purposes. US
grants were sometimes earmarked for a specific item
such as a piece of equipment, electrical installation or
library, and sometimes for general construction purposes,
the German officials recommending what part of the
project needed financing.

US grants ranged from DM 6,248 to DM 13,632 and
averaged DM 10,070 ($2,396). Frequently the smaller
communities, because they found it more difficult to
raise the major share of the money needed to finance
the project, received the most help. At the entrance of
each the building is a plaque giving credit to the US
for its contribution.

The populations of the 23 communities which have
received US aid range from 142 to 5,969, with a total
of 29,735 and an average of 1,293. However, these cen-
ters serve neighboring towns and whole counties.

Although the US Mission has withdrawn its resident
officers and agricultural advisory personnel in state and

FEBRUARY 1953

local areas, as well as its direct financial support for
future projects, it is still continuing its deep interest
in the rural community centers. The US womens’ affairs
adviser, Miss Ethel Kuhn, in the Public Affairs Office
at the American Consulate General in Munich works
closely and is in frequent consultation with the leaders
of womens’ groups, particularly with Mrs. Maria Bauer,
president of the Bavarian state Farmer Women’s
Association. This organization has 250,000 members. Mrs.
Bauer, a mother and a housewife, is a vigorous and
articulate speaker and a devoted campaigner for the
improvement of the woman’s lot. Also Mrs. Bauer has
visited the United States on an exchange program.

In Untermeddling the women wanted a kindergarten
for the children. They were not satisfied with the orig-
inal plans. Bypassing the county architect’s office, they
went to Munich and secured a new set of plans from
the state planning commission. The small community of
Untermeddling with only 394 inhabitants, combined
with Obermeddling with 847, both in the county of Dil-
lingen, to make possible a project. When the mayor
refused to act as trustee to receive US aid Mrs. Bauer
stepped in and formed a registered association to receive
the funds. The idea for a house in this area came not
from the farmers but from labor circles.

‘HE COMMUNITY centers in towns near the Czech

border play a particular role in modern Germany.
The cold war is constantly at their door. Communist
propaganda is strong in this area; so is resistance to it.
But sometimes these people, living in what the Germans
would admit and describe as a cultural desert, an area
where there are comparatively few schools and institu-
tions of higher learning, feel isolated and forsaken by
the Western world. The community centers in these
parts of Germany are more than practical time-saving
ventures; they are symbols of the interest of their own
people and government in their position. The Americans
share, through the encouragement it has given to the
Haus der Baeuerin movement, in the feeling that the
German people in this area have not been entirely
neglected and that the outside world will support their
stand against Communism. END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Neumuenster (left to right, seated): Dr. Rudolf Ullemeyer, director of the
adult education school; Dr. Mead; Karoline Faust, chief of the women’s
police; Guenther Budros, comptroller of the city finance office; (standing):
Juergen Koelln, building materials manufacturer; Gerhard Lenselink, re-
porter of the Neumuenster Holsteinischer Courier; Dr. Kurt Hahn, physician
of the Municipal Hospital; Karl Wettengel, school teacher; Kurt Burmeister,
inspector of traffic and finance service of the German Railroad System.

Bielefeld (left to right, seated): Herta Kisker, president of the local women’s
division of the German Red Cross; Dr. Mead; Dr. Maria Stemme, social
worker and youth adviser; Rudolf Stroehlinger, secretary of the Union of
Public Service, Transportation and Traffic Workers; (standing): Waldemar
Schibilsky, Protestant minister and district youth worker; Georg von Bau-
dissin, deputy city clerk; Rolf Beudel, teacher; Ewold Oberschelp, social
welfare worker; Wilhelm Pohlschmidt, editor of the Bielefeld paper.

Freiburg (left to right, seated): Dr. Gertrud Klein, president of the women’s
organization; Dr. Mead; Gertrud Tohsmann, teacher; (standing): Viktor
Kuntzemueller, chief engineer of electric power company; Karl Litterst,
director of the Commercial High School; Maximilian Matt, chairman of the
Ministry of Justice; Dr. Kurt Pohl, director of the Catholic Welfare League;
Wilhelm Meyer, economic affairs editor of Freiburg’s Badische Zeitung;
Georg Steinebach, manager of the travel office. .

Community Teams Visit US

(Photos by K. Hopp, Information Office, American Consulate General,

NOWN AS Cooperative Action Teams, groups of six
to eight leading citizens representing 22 commun-
ities of western Germany have gone to the United States
in the past two years to study at first hand in America

tices of the Western world for adoption in their own
communities.

The last six teams of HICOG’s Exchange of Persons
1952 program departed from Frankfurt early in January

size and interest as their own. Shown above at their pre-
departure conferences with Dr. John F. Mead, then dep-
uty chief of the Exchanges Branch, Division of Cultural
Affairs, were teams from Bielefeld and Luedenscheid

Frankfurt)

Salzgitter (left to right, seated): Erich Klemt, director of the city laboratory;
Dr. Mead; Margarete Schroeter, manager of the workers’ welfare organiza-
tion; Erich Kinzel, welfare worker; (standing): Werner Boehmken, manager
of city board of cultural and information affairs; Georg Luehrs, director of
adult education school; Gerhard Harbecht, surveyer of white-collar employ-
ees; Rudolf Knape, correspondent for the Brunswick Zeitung; Adolf von
Carlowitz, assistant to the manager of the state industrial school.

cities in the hope of bringing back new ideas and prac-

Darmstadt (left to right, seated) Dr. Irmgara Paetzold, secondary school
teacher; Dr. Mead; Dr. Lotte Koehler, Physician and biochemist; Dr. Her-
mann Neuschaeffer, lawyer and city MAvistrate; (standing): Dr. Adam Huef-
ner, general secretary of the chamber Of commerce; Dr. Helmut Witte, pro-
fessor at the Darmstadt Technical Collése; Wilhelm Straehringer, president
of an electrical company; Klaus Schmit, city editor of the Darmstadt Echo.
(not present) Dr. Ludwig Engel, May °f Darmstadt.

for three-month tours of American cities of comparable in North Rhine-Westphalia, Freiburg in Baden-

Luedenscheid (left to right, seated): Marie Schuppener, teacher; Dr. Mead;
Hildegard Harzbaecher, chairman of the Evangelical Women’s League;
(standing): Paul Becker, city youth welfare worker; Josef Schelz, editorial
writer of the Luedenscheid Nachrichten; Ernst Mehlich, member of the city
council; Otto Bussemer, commercial manager of a local metals works;
Dr. Herbert Vollmann, president of the local court; Johannes Born, city
manager; Walter Daeumer, vice chairman of the local works council.

--- Page 20 ---
Wuerttemberg, Darmstadt in Hesse, Neumuenster in
Schleswig-Holstein and Salzgitter in Lower Saxony.

Previously during 1951 and 1952 sixteen teams had
visited the United States, including those from Duessel-
dorf, Osnabrueck, Muenchen-Gladbach, Muenster and
Krefeld in North Rhine-Westphalia; Cham, Coburg, Ro-
senheim and Straubing in Bavaria; Schwaebisch-
Gmuend, Mannheim-Heidelberg, Pforzheim, Ulm and
Karlsruhe in Baden-Wuerttemberg; Giessen in Hesse,
and Luebeck in Schleswig-Holstein.

Composed of leaders from municipal and community
organizations as diverse as city government, education,
labor, press, youth and welfare activities, these coopera-
tive action teams study how American citizens vol-
untarily work together to solve local problems such as
housing, public health and education. These tours em-
phasize particularly the means by which such groups can
exercise their prerogatives and duties as citizens.

EAM members, individually and as a group, meet

their counterparts in different American commun-
ities, attend meetings of local legislative bodies, and ob-
serve activities of professional, civic and social organiza-
tions, such as parent-teacher associations and labor
unions.

Itineraries of the teams which left in January include:

Darmstadt team: Hartford, Conn.; Lincoln, Neb., and Sa-
cramento, Calif.

Salzgitter team: Peoria, Ill; Spokane, Wash., and Richmond,
Calif.

Luedenscheid team: Hamilton, Ohio; Binghamton, N.Y., and
western cities.

Neumuenster team: Fresno, Calif.; Beloit, Wis., and Wor-
cester, Mass.

Bielefeld team: Stanford, Conn.; Tulsa, Okla., and Seattle,
Wash.

Freiburg team: Rochester, N.Y.; Grand Rapids, Mich., and
Whittier, Calif.

The idea of the cooperative action team was developed

early in 1951 as a result of difficulties experienced by.

many Germans returning from study and observation
tours abroad in promoting new ideas in tradition-bound
communities unless they were in influential positions. In
order to develop active participation of community lead-
ers and community groups in direct contact with their
own governmental affairs, the project was outlined as
follows:

ERMANS WILL be selected for 90-day trips to the

United States. They will be chosen in teams of eight,
each team to come from the same general local area and
to travel as a unit. Each team should include such re-
presentative local citizens of the selected community as
one newspaper man, one city councilman, the mayor, one
union leader, one socially minded church leader, one
leader of women groups and two leaders of independent
civic organizations. If possible, a radio director also
should be included.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Each of these teams, after a preliminary conference in
Germany, will be sent to a designated sponsor in the
United States and spend the 90 days in an intense study
of the relationship of the citizen to his government and
to political control over his government. This will in-
volve working closely with such groups as the local
university school of public administration, the local adult
education program, citizens’ associations, the League of
Women Voters, the town councils of a number of me-
dium-sized communities, the county commissioners,
wherever possible the state legislators, the local labor
unions, the local courts, etc.

“The program should include participation in a series
of specially conducted seminars sponsored either by the
adult education group or by the university, attendance
at meetings of public legislative bodies, conferences with
civic leaders in all areas, observation of budget hearings,
political party meetings and all other phases of the local
manifestations of citizen democracy in action.

“After their return to Germany the teams will be
brought together for two follow-up conferences. Such
local teams represent a cross-section of the forces which
are potentially the most effective in making democracy
work.”

HE SUCCESS of this project is best illustrated by the

activities of the Krefeld team which visited the
United States in the early summer of 1951, spending
three weeks each in Philadelphia Pa.; Berkeley, Calif.,
and Ann Arbor, Mich. In Philadelphia, the members,
guided by Dr. Johannes Huber, a German emigrant and
municipal public health director, observed at first hand
the campaign then being waged to change the city’s pol-
itical administration. In addition to observations and
conferences, they studied citizen training at the Univer-
sity of California and attended courses at the University
of Michigan’s School of Public Administration.

Comprising the Krefeld team were Theodor Plueke-
baum, SPD member of the City Council and local chair-
man of the Teachers’ Union; Dr. Alex Kehrmann, chair-
man of the CDU faction of the City Council; Adolf Mar-
kardt, SPD member of the City Council and sales man-
ager of a Krefeld factory; Dr. Erick Wedekind, chairman
of the Economic Department of the Krefeld Textile En-
gineering College; Dr. Bernhard Roessler, city public
health chief; Margarete Porten, principal of the Girls’
High School and Junior College, and Marianne Gatzke,
lawyer and women’s club leader.

REFELD, known as the silk center of Germany, is

an industrial city of 179,000 inhabitants, located near
the Rhine River about 35 miles northwest of Cologne.
It was heavily damaged during the war. It was from
here that emigrated in 1683 the thirteen families who
became the first German settlers of the Germantown
section of Philadelphia. Here is located the headquarters

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 21 ---
Margarete Porten (center) and Marianne Gatzke (right), members of the Krefeld Cooperative Action Team, being
interviewed by Aileen S. Miles, HICOG radio liaison officer, on results of their Exchange Program tour of the

United States.

of the Mennonites Central Committee in Europe, which
has channeled much welfare assistance, food and cloth-
ing from American Mennonites into Germany since the
war.

Since their return to Germany in July 1951, the team
members, collectively and individually, have engaged in
a variety of activities in order to use and share as
widely as possible their experiences and knowledge gar-
nered from the American trip.

Their widespread speaking activity has centered on
the theme of how American counterparts serve the com-
munity and encourage full citizenship participation. The
seven, as a panel, have addressed thousands of persons
in the area at meetings with the city administration,
chamber of commerce, labor unions, church groups,
women’s and youth groups, educational socjeties, sci-
entific and business associations. In the first year, in-
dividually each delivered twenty or more talks.

In their speaking engagements, they highlighted in-
dividual civic responsibility, educational youth programs,
development of internationalism and understanding with
the West. In reviewing these talks and panel discussions,
they emphasized that they had learned to interpret the
United States to Germans without appearing too pro-
American or alienating their audiences.

HE TEAM members, particularly Mrs. Porten, Mrs.

Gatzke and Mr. Plueckebaum, promoted the estab-
lishment of a parent-teacher association for the Girls’
High School and Junior College. This PTA, as one of its
first tasks, helped in arranging the movement of the
Krefeld City Theater from the girls’ school building.
It also is advocating the construction of a girls’ voca-

FEBRUARY 1953

(PLB ID HICOG photo)

tional school to relieve crowded conditions in the pres-
ent school building.

Under the impetus of Mr. Markardt, a public safety
program of traffic education was launched in Krefeld.
Team members cooperated in the formation of a traf-
fic safety committee composed of representatives of the
City Council, city administration, civic organizations and
the citizenry. The committee, in addition to conducting
an extensive publicity campaign on safe traffic prac-
tices, has changed some traffic routings, and had street
signs and lights installed at dangerous intersections.

Mrs. Gatzke, who was a leading spirit in reviving
after the war the Krefeld Women’s Organization, one of
the oldest in Germany until disbanded in 1939 by the
Nazis, has been a foremost promotor of the organiza-
tion’s campaign to raise funds for the building of a nur-
sery home. With the assistance of her legal talents, the
women’s group succeeded in 1951 in regaining the
Nazi-confiscated land as the site for the nursery. Con-
struction of the home was estimated at DM 750,000
($178,500). For this DM 50,000 ($11,900) came from the
HICOG Special Projects Fund.

The cooperative action committee had a strong ef-
fect in the municipal election in November 1951. Jo-
hannes Hauser, who was supported by members of the
team, was selected mayor of Krefeld. Mr. Plueckebaum,
a member of the team, was elected deputy mayor.

Krefeld has sought to reciprocate for the benefits de-
rived from the visit of its cooperative action team to the
United States by issuing an invitation for a similar type
team from the United States to visit Krefeld this spring
and observe its community activities. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 22 ---
America — Bremen Ties
Continued from page 6

followed 10 years later by the Condor, an airplane built
in Bremen which took only 24 hours for its nonstop
flight to New York and 20 hours for the return flight.
Here again Bremen pioneered in establishing new con-
nections to the United States, this time in the field of
aviation.

Bremen’s greatest achievement in the field of shipping
connections with the United States was undoubtedly the
construction of the liners Bremen and Europa, both of
which broke all previous speed records for transatlantic
crossings and were considered the fastest ships in the
world in their field. Naturally, Bremen could not permit
its ports to lag behind in rapid development. For its
ports, Bremen spent hundreds of millions in the course
of the years.

After World War II, Bremen again had to start from
scratch. Once again all of its merchant marine was lost,
and this time even the ports were destroyed and the
shipyards wrecked and dismantled. Once more all the
friendly ties that our businessmen and shipping lines
had established to foreign countries were broken.

At this time of Bremen’s greatest need, the previous
trend reversed itself. Bremen became part of the Amer-
ican occupation zone, and, instead of our own, American
ships soon began to fill our port. The American flag soon
took first place in imports and exports through Bremen.
Statistics show, that, for example, in 1951, 30 percent of
all American goods imported into Germany were ship-
ped through the ports of Bremen.

LOOK AT the history of the past seven years will

show, that in addition Bremen was generously aided
and supported by America in other ways. Since the end
of the war, Bremen has received from American sources
a total of about 45,000,000 marks* in outright help and
grants-in-aid for a large number of projects in all fields
of economic and social life. These amounts need not be
paid back.

During the time when the need was greatest, CARE
packages worth $1,300,000 were given away to individual
persons, while in addition countless others were sent
CARE packages by friends or relatives in the United
States. The CRALOG organization, acting on its own
initiative, during the famine years of 1946 and 1947 gave
away 6,500,000 pounds of food and clothing to the needy
in Bremen while at the same time donating 15,000,000
marks’ worth of food for the Bremen school lunch pro-
gram.

No less important were 65,000,000 marks which the
State of Bremen received as its share of ECA
counterpart funds. These millions were used for

*Because of different values of various marks in circulation
in this period, the equivalent cannot be expressed in US
dollars.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the rebuilding of all kinds of factories, utilies, manufac-
turing plants and shipyards. It can safely be said that
during the postwar years considerably more than
100, 000,000 marks was given to the State of Bremen
from American sources, without the Americans them-
selves talking very much about it.

IODAY, TOO, we have met in an institution planned

and supported by Americans and for which we are
indebted to them just as we are for the support that
our Neighborhood House received from American dona-
tions. A new building for the American Consulate Gen-
eral will soon be erected, to render active assistance to
the trade between the United States and Germany.

Much more could be said about the political and
educational ties that bind the United States to Germany
and Europe. But the purpose of my speech has been
to point out the economic ties that link Bremen and the
United States.

The question arises: What are the underlying reasons
that have caused the Americans to help in this way a
country that they have occupied? The answer may be
taken from what I have said before about the close ties
that have linked Germany and America for such a long
time. The Americans were returning in kind not only
to us but to all of Europe the spiritual and material
aid that they had previously received from the Old
World. This American aid is partly the voluntary giving
of one human individual to another. But it is also a
great organized mass effort and as such an achievement
that has never before been recorded in the history of
mankind.

I am pointing this out because even now there are
those among us who formerly were eager and glad to
have this help and today would prefer to forget the
time when they were among the recipients. After all, the
time is not long past when we in West Germany were
made aware of the fact that every other slice of bread
we ate was paid for by the Americans out of their own
funds. Fortunately, this condition is a thing of the rast,
and due to the tireless work of our population our
economy has recovered to a point where we can earn
ourselves most of the money needed to buy our food.

UT HERE again we are indebted to the United States

which has given us part of the means needed to
spark this recovery. We have good reason never to forget
all this. However, all Americans and Germans must
realize one thing. We Germans cannot expect America
to conform to us. On the other hand, America should
not attempt to make us over in its own image. It is my
hope and my endeavor to be able to help a process by
which the best ideas of either nation will eventually
meet and be fused into one without either part giving
up or losing its distinctive individuality.

With this in mind I welcome the opening of this ex-
hibition. +END

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 23 ---
Many Names Applied. to Red Heresies

HE INDEX of criminal heresies against the Com-

munist-Marxist-Leninist dogma includes dozens of
possible deviations from the path of “true faith” and
the list is constantly growing, according to the Public
Affairs Division of HICOG’s Berlin Element. An ex-
amination of the Soviet-licensed East Zone press for
the past few weeks disclosed 36 separate ideological
crimes of which Soviet Zone residents and particularly
Communist officials may be guilty.

Recent purges in Soviet-orbit countries have focused
attention on the various forms of “thought crimes”
into which Soviet Zone functionaries may fall. Many
of these “crimes” are incomprehensible to the ordinary
reader; many overlap one another, and most of the
definitions are vague in the extreme.

Such a battery of catalogued ideological crimes is
naturally useful in disposing of persons no longer con-
venient to the officials in power. At the same time,
the rigging out of Communist theory in all the trap-
pings of irrational authoritarianism indicates how com-
pletely Communism has been perveted from its original
form of appeal to reason, officials said.

Trotzkyism was originally a preference for an im-
mediate try for world revolution instead of building
a revolutionary bastion in Russia alone, but recently
it has been used in the general sense of revolutionary
but not strongly pro-Soviet attitude. Titoism, on the
other hand, is the desire to set up a Communist state
independent of the Soviet Union—putting national in-
terests above Soviet interests. Closely related to this is
chauvinism, an attitude in which nationalist feelings
impair respect and devotion to the Soviet Union. Zionism
involves giving prior loyalty to fellow Jews or to the
Jewish state of Isreal, rather than to Moscow.

MONG THE other general ideological heresies are

cosmopolitanism, a tendency to see too much good
in other countries besides the Soviet Union, and pacifism,
which is a failure to recognize that Soviet orbit countries
must be armed to the teeth and may need to fight “jus-
tified wars of liberation” from time to time.

Social Democratism is the belief that a socialist
economy can be achieved by peaceful, democratic, par-
jiamentary means. It is linked to conciliationism, which
is the belief that differences between Communist and
non-Communist countries can be overcome. Opportunism
is the desire of a Communist Party to act so as to fur-
ther the ends of its own country, or, in the Soviet view,
to sacrifice the long-term objective for the short-term
gain.

The dangers threatening the individual Communist
official or party member are far from exhausted by the
foregoing. He may also be guilty of objectivism if he
tries to subject instructions to reasoned criticism, or of
individualism if he places his personal desires above the
demands of the party. If not enthusiastic enough, he

FEBRUARY 1953

may be branded a careerist, or one who engages in party
activities only to further his career. By hesitating’ to
carry out party orders or by trying to keep from becom-
ing too involved in party activities, he may find himself
in the ranks of the neutralists.

SPECIAL concern for the interests of a particular

group may bring down the curse of particularism
on a hapless party member. A special case of this is the
unionist, who places the interests of the workers in
higher wages above the interest of the party in cheaper
production. This sort of thing may also lead to fac-
tionalism, which is an effort to form separate opposition
groups within the party.

In doing his job, the official may fall into practicism
if he tries to deal with problems on the spot without
referring to party gospel, or theoreticism, if he fails to
deal with the problems while trying to find the proper
theory to apply to them. The opprobrium of bureaucrat-
ism awaits the official who is unable to explain or-
ganizational difficulties successfully to the public, while
anyone opposing piece-work wages and special priv-
ileges for those in power is guilty of the sin of equal-
itarianism.

Revisionism, a desire for gradual progress and reluc-
tance to rush ahead with radical measures, and rel-
ativism, a belief that orders from above must be adapted
to local conditions, also lie in wait for the unwary party
member, while persons who have avoided the other pit-
falls, may very likely be unmasked as diversionists, if

Following is a list of “thought crimes” mentioned

recently in the Soviet Zone press:
Trotzkyism Chauvinism
Zionism Social Democratism
Cosmopolitanism Opportunism
Objectivism Careerism
Particularism Equalitarianism
Bureaucratism Theoreticism
Unionism Revisionism
Diversionism Formalism
Schematism Naturalism
Imperialism Collaborationism
Opposition to internal Lack of class
party democracy consciousness
Bourgeois attitude Uncritical attitude
Titoism Neutralism
Pacifism Relativism
Conciliationism Critical realism
Individualism Militarism
Factionalism Lack of vigilance
Practicism Kulak attitude

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 24 ---
they have ever done anything calculated to divert the
attention of the people from “building socialism.”

Officials on middle levels at odds with those on top,
who allegedly have the support of the rank and file, are
deliberately opposing internal party democracy. Others,
“who have let them get away with this for a time, or
have otherwise failed to prevent either accidents or
inevitable developments are guilty of lack of vigilance.
If, on the other hand, they have tried to hide from the
people some catastrophe which finally becomes appar-
ent, they are blamed for having an uncritical attitude,
in which lack of class consciousness, or reluctance to do
extra unpaid work demanded by the party, may play a
part.

Citizens unwilling to surrender voluntarily possessions
they have earned show their bourgeois attitude. If they
are farmers reluctant to give up their land and join a
collective farm, they are demonstrating kulak attitude.

N THE cultural field, the proper path is that of

socialist realism. On both sides of that narrow way
lie the traps of formalism, schematism and naturalism,
while critics attempting to judge a work of art may
find themselves slipping into critical realism, which is
bad, even though it sounds as if it were orthodox.
Formalism in art is undue emphasis on color and com-
position, instead of on subject matter. In music, it

reflects too much concern for the structure of a com-
position instead of its appeal for the masses, and, sim-
ilarly, in literature, too much attention to plot, char-
acterization and description, rather than to inspirational
themes. Naturalism is the sin of showing the bad or
gloomy side of things instead of the strength and op-
timism which will allegedly mold the future of Com-
munist society. A writer who has tried hard to do the
right thing, but whose work is so bad from a profes-
sional standpoint as to be unacceptable even by party
standards is guilty of schematism. The critic who applies
this label, however, must be careful not to go so far in
applying normal criteria of literary criticism that he
becomes a critical realist.

In conclusion, there are those ideological errors which,
by Communist doctrine, are ascribed to non-communists.
Among the most common of these are imperialism (any
opposition to the policies of the Soviet Union), mil-
itarism (the raising of any armed forces outside the
Soviet orbit) and collaborationism, or a willingness to
cooperate with non-communist elements.

It is obvious that these “ideological crimes” cover
such a broad area that they can be applied almost at
will to anyone at any time. Apparently that is their
main value to the persons in power in the Soviet Zone
and other Soviet orbit countries. +END

Vopo Fugitives Describe Bad Camp Conditions

TATEMENTS by former members of the Soviet Zone

armed forces who have fled to West Berlin confirm
reports of bad living conditions and poor treatment of
recruits in the so-called “People’s Police” military train-
ing camps.

Members of the East Zone armed forces, or “Vopos,”
now numbering more than 100,000 men, are fleeing to
the West at the rate of eight to ten a day, according to
officials of Berlin Element, HICOG. Officers up to the
rank of major are often among the fugitives, most of
whom cross the sector border between East and West
Berlin on foot, frequently in uniform and carrying their
weapons.

Testimony of these fugitives about conditions in the
“Vopos” demonstrates once more the determination of
Soviet and Soviet-German authorities to force through
their policies without regard to individual welfare, and
gives the lie to fulsome East Zone recruiting propaganda
extolling “ideal conditions” in the camps and barracks.

Almost every report repeats the pattern of inadequate
quarters, bad food, rigorous duty, little freedom, ar-
bitrary punishment and interminable political indoc-
trination.

NTIL MID-November, “Vopo” deserters say, some
units were still quartered in 15-20 man tents with-
out water, lights, heating or sanitary facilities. In many

INFORMATION BULLETIN

cases, the nearest place for washing was a stream as far
as one mile away.

Food is meager and of poor quality, according to
nearly all former “Vopos.” Because of overcrowding in
the barracks, meals are often late; frequently nothing
is left for the last units.

The camp day begins at 6 a.m. Duty is harsh, with
a large amount of drill. Arbitrary punishment and petty
tyranny by officers are common. Especially irritating
are the Soviet officers, called “Sovietniks,” who, since
Dec. 1, 1952, have been assigned to all units down to
platoon level.

ANY RECRUITS complain of brutal, overbearing

treatment at the hands of German “Vopo” officers
as well. The many special privileges enjoyed by officers
are a constant annoyance in view of the propaganda
insisting that “out-moded privileges of officers” have
allegedly been eliminated.

One of the most frequent complaints is that after the
regular daily training routine has been completed,
recruits are obliged to attend “political indoctrination
classes” until late in the evening. Free time is almost
non-existing and leaves are rare. Many fugitives state
that they were no longer able to endure the ridicule of
the East Zone inhabitants over the new Soviet-style
olive-drab uniforms, which make the recruits look like
Russian soldiers.

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 25 ---
Christmas

PPHOUeANDS of Americans in Germany, in and out
of uniform, dug deep into their pockets and hearts to
produce a Christmas season that many thousands of
Germans consider their finest ever.

In carrying on the tradition that the US Army in-
augurated at Christmas time in 1946, the first one in
the bleak early occupation period, the 1952 good-will
Americans, imbued with a spirit of providing aid and
cheer for their German neighbors, succeeded in bringing
Santa Claus to thousands of Germans he might have
missed. They have made it a “merry” Christmas for
many who, through ordinary circumstances, would
have experienced just another day.

American soldiers, officers, civilians and their fam-
ilies, serving with the United States missions in Ger-
many, contributed more than $413,000 in money, food,
clothing, toys, and other items to German unfortun-
ates for Christmas. This did not include more than
$130,000 worth of CARE packages purchased in Berlin
by Americans as gifts for Germans.

Hse? AND THE US Army Europe (USAREUR)
distributed approximately 17,600 cartons of Amer-
ican cigarettes to hospitalized German war veterans
throughout the US Zone of Germany during the
Christmas week. The action had been approved by US
High Commissioner Walter J. Donnelly and Lt. Gen.
M. S. Eddy, USAREUR commander.

The cigarettes reached German veterans in some 75
veterans’ hospitals and also those being cared for in
German civilian hospitals. US soldiers, especially se-
lected, made the actual presentations. The 7,600 car-
tons of cigarettes had been confiscated by HICOG and
USAREUR law enforcement agencies.

In tiny hamlets, where soldiers portrayed Santa
Claus, to major cities, where hundreds of Americans
joined forces to provide help, the spirit was the same,
whether in the French Zone cities of Mainz or Kai-
serslauten, or in communities such as Heidelberg,
Mannhe-m and Passau.

NCLUDED IN many Christmas festivities were spe-

cial packages of candy, cookies and fruit, with each
gift package bearing a card with the message, “Merry
Christmas from your American friends.” Children’s
groups entertained at individual parties in their honor
ranged from 75 to 900 youngsters. That outpouring of
yuletide spirit was a yardstick for the rest of the com-
munities which benefited through the presence of
Americans in Germany.

Almost $40,000 worth of gifts, clothing and food
went to Germans in the Heidelberg area. A similar
amount was donated in Munich for the same purposes.

Americans in the Wuerzburg area spent about
$20,000 to provide gifts for German orphanages, for
homes for the aged and blind, and for refugee camps.

FEBRUARY 1953

Good Will

In one effort, enlisted men’s wives collected almost
$400 for the purchase of toys for children in one
orphanage. American troops in the Wuerzburg area
entertained more than 1,100 Germans of various ages
at parties and gatherings designed to bring cheer to
those who would have been without it.

More than 5,000 Germans in the Frankfurt commun-
ity benefited from American contributions. Of that
total 3,000 were orphans, needy family members and
elderly Iron Curtain refugees. Gifts, clothing and food
were the main contributions that left Germans and
Americans happier.

HE LARGEST group to receive aid in the Frank-

furt area comprised 1,700 children of German em-
ployees in the Giessen Quartermaster depot—each
was furnished a complete turkey dinner. Five aged
people’s homes, eight children’s homes, hospitals and
six refugee camps shared in the Christmas bounty.
Thousands of toy items, some new and others repaired,
were parceled out to the children; Americans sing-
ing Christmas carols brought a special treat to elderly
inmates of some homes and hospitals.

Soldiers of a finance disbursing unit in Stuttgart
donated 200 pounds of turkey and four radios to a
home for the blind. The Seventh Army Food Serv-
ice School prepared some of the turkeys and sent two
school cooks to the home to carve the birds and help
with the serving. Bags of candy were presented to
the 2,000 inmates, most of whom were children.

German Youth Activities Units throughout the Amer-
ican Zone contributed thousands of dollars, tons of
food, carloads of toys and clothing, and countless other
aids that spread cheer and happiness for thousands of
German youths.

Samuel Reber (right), acting US high commissioner, in
a brief ceremony Dec. 23 at HICOG headquarters in
Mehlem, near Bonn, presented 8,000 cartons of confis-
cated cigarettes to Wolfgang G. Hartmann, secretary
general of the German Red Cross, for distribution among

hospitalized German war veterans. (PLB ID HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 26 ---
A new touch was added to this year’s aid from
Americans by the use of helicopters in Santa Claus
missions. They whirled in from the skies in many
USAREUR areas, disgorging their thick Santa Claus
passengers with sacks of goodies. Hundreds of chil-
dren, who had been watching the skies for days, saw
no reindeer but were just as happy. Times had
changed and so had Santa. But the effect was the
same and Santa’s red and white outfit and black boots,
looked mighty familiar and welcome to all the little
sky watchers.

In the whirly-bird operations, four Seventh Army
helicopter pilots, dressed as Santa Claus, helped to
distribute Christmas gifts in the Stuttgart district.

More than $15,000 was raised in a special America-
conducted fund-raising contest to benefit German
children in the Nuremberg area.

MERICAN kindness was not exclusively for Ger-

mans. A pre-Christmas visit by Americans to the
Bibenheim displaced persons camp resulted in gifts
of food and clothing, donated by a Rhein-Main re-
ligious group. Hundreds of refugees and DP’s through-
out the USAREUR section of Germany received a
helping hand from those more fortunate.

East Zone Germans who fled across the border into
West Germany, and are now in the Giessen Refugee
Camp, found their Christmas season brightened by the
help of American Catholic and Protestant groups. Sev-
eral hundred dollars, collected in the American military
chapels in the area, were turned over to the director
of the refugee camp, and were applied to the Christ-
mas menu in order that the refugees would have a
real special Christmas dinner.

Germans reciprocated in many instances, and gen-
erally attempted to repay in spirit the generosity that
came to them. Many German families invited Amer-
icans, in and out of uniform, into their homes for
Christmas dinners and celebrations. Mayors in some
communities called on townspeople to throw their
homes open in spirit of hospitality and provide a
homelike atmosphere for hundreds of Americans far
from their homes on Christmas day. Responses were
good, and in scores of communities, particularly in Ba-
varia, German families sat down to their traditional
Weihnachtsgans or Christmas goose, with at least one
American at the table to share their good fortune.

N A pre-Christmas message of gratitude to the Ger-

man people for inviting American servicemen into
their homes during the holiday season, General Eddy
stated:

“It is gratifying to know that more than 175,000 Ger-
man families have invited American servicemen into
their homes for the holiday season and I would like
to express my sincere appreciation for this gesture of
good will by the German people. A large percentage
of these invitations will be accepted and I am cer-
tain that the guests and hosts will spend an enjoyable

INFORMATION BULLETIN

holiday season together. However, for those generous
people who have extended invitations that cannot be
accepted due to the training or duty commitments of
our servicemen, I extend thanks and assurance that
their kind acts have not gone unnoticed.”

In Stuttgart and surrounding communities, there «was
scarcely an orphanage that was not remembered by
Americans. A large electric train was delivered to a
children's tuberculosis hospital, and two soldiers who
brought the train for the children also brought candy,
pudding and cake. At Heilbronn a soldier detachment
held a party for children of German employees,
and a huge Christmas tree was part of the festivities.
Stockings stuffed with candy and toys hung from al-
most every limb, all provided by non-commissioned of-
ficer personnel at one troop barracks.

An armored cavalry regiment was host to more
than 1,000 German children and families at the regi-
ment’s three stations. Christmas parties for inmates of
an orphanage in one USAREUR city meant a pair of
house shoes each for 120 children, and a radio for the
orphanage itself. Hundreds of German children saw
Santa Claus at a grand party held at Nabollenbach,
made possible by %1,200 collected by Americans to fin-"
ance the festivities.

Efforts among Americans in the Karlsruhe District
realized more than 48.000, most of which was used to
purchase clothing for 2.000 underprivileged German

children.
ANY NEWSPAPERS prominently reported that
Acting High Commissioner Samuel Reber had

turned over 8,000 cartons of confiscated cigarettes to
the German Red Cross for distribution to hospitalized
German veterans. Papers stressed that the 8,000 car-
tons were in addition to 7,600 cartons donated for the
same purpose by American soldiers of the Seventh
Army and other units.

In the South German press major attention in “GI
generosity” stories was given to Erding Air Base’s
“Operation Christmas,” in which every one of the
17,000 Bavarian orphans was presented four packages.
The newspapers in the Bonn region particularly noted
the benefit organized by the American Women’s club
in Plittersdorf. The benefit raised $800, which sum was
granted to orphan children and refugees in the Bonn
area.

Most of the leading papers ran short accounts of the
Christmas invitations to Allied soldiers in Germany
issued by four groups promoting international under-
standing: the Steuben-Schurz Society, the German-
French Cultural Association, the German-Canadian
Society, and the German-English Society. The success
of this project—roughly 60,000 Allied soldiers cele-
brated Christmas with German families—was well
played in the news columns. The press also carried
accounts of the presentation of an impressive Christ-
mas tree by a score of Black Forest teen-agers, decked
out in regional costumes, to Acting High Commis-

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 27 ---
sioner Reber. This presentation, made in Mr. Reber’s
headquarters in Mehlem, was an expression of thanks
from the German children for the postwar American
assistance given to them.

Frankfurter Rundschau featured a detailed account
of how the director of the North Baden GYA, Lt. Col.
Everett T. Reniker, and the USAREUR GYA public-
information officer, Wolf Reade, devoted their spare
hours to painting the play room in an overflow bar-
racks section of the St. Paulusheim Child Welfare
Home in Heidelberg. The work was completed in time

to permit the children in the otherwise bleak barracks
section to spend Christmas in fresh and gay sur-
roundings

In June of last year the lieutenant colonel, together
with American women of the St. Ann Catholic Ladies
Group, Heidelberg stationed troops, and German GYA
youth, had begun working on the extension of the
Welfare Home building necessary to accomodate the
children. Construction material was donated largely
by the Americans, with a German firm contributing
paint. +END

RIAS Inaugurates New Transmitter

NEW TRANSMITTER, which makes RIAS one of

the most powerful voices in the Free World, was
put in operation Jan. 15 at ceremonies held at the
transmitter site in Berlin.

The new installation triples RIAS’ broadcasting
power, stepping it up from 100 to 300 kilowatts, and
enables the US-sponsored station in the American Sec-
tor of Berlin to penetrate deeper into the areas east
of the Iron Curtain.

Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin pressed the button
which set the transmitter in operation. Among speak-
ers at the ceremonies, in addition to Mayor Reuter,
were Alfred V. Boerner, director of the HICOG Of-
fice of Public Affairs; Eberhard Schuetz, RIAS pro-
gram director, and Albert Poesniker, RIAS technical
director.

“The success that RIAS has achieved to date is an
assurance that this strengthened voice of the Free
World ... will meet in larger measure the demands
and needs of its listeners,” Mr. Boerner said. He added
that the role of RIAS is “to serve its listeners sincerely
and to maintain and deepen its human contact with
them.”

“RIAS is not an end in itself,” Mr. Boerner con-
tinued “Its task is to represent in both East and West
the ideals and values of the Free World—even where
they are being suppressed .. .”

PEAKING TO residents of the Soviet Zone, Mayor

Reuter said: “We are here as free men, speaking to
you in the conviction that the day of your liberation
will come . . . that you will once again be able to join
the community of free peoples.

“The world is on our side and will struggle with
us .. .We know that we have new chicaneries and
new harassments to face in the future. But this will
not turn us from our purpose. We will employ all
our powers... to bring about a new future in free-
dom and peace.

“This new transmitter will aid us in our struggle.
With it we will be able to penetrate to the fartherest
corners of Soviet-occupied Germany with the voice
of freedom.”

FEBRUARY 1953

The new RIAS transmitter was developed by the
Berlin Telefunken firm according to the latest tech-
nical designs, and incorporates a number of new de-
vices including special high-power tubes.

Other technical improvements include a system of
carrying the high power output to the antenna by
means of a large concentric pipeline feeder. The new
antenna will utilize two towers 146 meters high, and
will be shielded from the north to minimize inter-

ference with Radio Goteborg in Sweden, which oper-
ates on a frequency close to that of RIAS.

+END

Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin pressed button setting new
transmitter in operation while near him watching the
act are (left to right) Fred Taylor, US director of RIAS;
Albert Poesniker, RIAS technical director; Alfred V.
Boerner, director of HICOG’s Office of Public Affairs,
and Eberhard Schuetz, RIAS program director.
(HICOG-Berlin photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 28 ---
In and Around Germany

Student Teams Depart

Twenty-four leading students and
faculty members from the Univer-
sities of Hamburg, Kiel, Cologne and
the Munich Technical College left
Bremerhaven Jan. 22 on the SS
United States for a five-month visit
to America.

A student government team from
each university, including one teach-
er and five students active in their
school affairs, will attend. different
American universities to observe
and participate in typical student
activities as self-government, re-
creational, social, welfare and reli-
gious programs. Designed to show
the cooperative relationship between
undergraduate bodies and their fac-
ulties and‘ communities, the tours
will emphasize how well-coordinated
student activities assist in educating
youth for more effective citizenship.

The departing exchangees, who
were selected from representative
areas of interest, will be enrolled as
special students under the guidance
of the dean of students and other
faculty advisers. They will attend
regular classes, special seminars and
discussion groups on the different
aspects of student life.

The University of Hamburg team
went to the University of Vermont.
The University of Kiel team enrolled
at the University of Indiana. Syr-
acuse University was host to the
University of Cologne represent-
atives. The Munich team is studying
at the Carnegie Institute of Tech-
nology in Pittsburgh.

These four teams make a total of
13 which have gone to the United
States en such student government
study programs. The first nine teams
of similar composition went from
the Universities of Bonn, Frankfurt,
Goettingen, Muenster, Freiburg, Er-
langen, Munich, Free University of
Berlin and the Wilhelmshaven Col-
lege for Labor, Politics and Econom-
ics. Several additional university
teams are scheduled to depart on
comparable tours next year.

Investments for Berlin

West Berlin will receive
DM 200,000,000 ($47,600,000) in invest-
ment funds under a new long-range
program aimed among other things
at creating additional permanent
jobs.

The money will come from coun-
terpart funds derived from United

INFORMATION BULLETIN

States dollar aid, by agreement be-
tween the MSA Special Mission to
Western Germany and the Govern-
ment of the Federal Republic.

At the same time, the procedure
for approving Berlin investment
projects has been simplified so that
the new funds will find their way
into the economy rapidly.

The new program brings to
DM 874,000,000 ($208,012,000) the total
amount of investment funds made
availbale to Berlin out of counter-
part derived from US aid.

The new program is part of a
Berlin long-term investment pro-
gram, and sectors and projects are
to be allocated funds in accordance
with the extent to which they can
be expected to provide additional
permanent working places in Berlin,
and the extent to which they will
help Berlin to overcome its adverse
payments position and its require-
ments for external assistance.

Loans will not be limited to enter-
prises already in existence, but may
be used to assist in the establish-
ment of new firms.

In determining the extent to
which a project will help overcome
Berlin’s unfavorable trade bglance,
consideration will be given to the
degree to which an enterprise will
supply items exportable to the Fed-
eral Republic or foreign countries at
competitive prices and the degree
to which it will supply items for
Berlin consumption which are now
being imported.

Weekly Earnings Higher

The Bank deutscher Laender (Ger-
many’s central bank) said in its Oc-
tober report, that, while the con-
sumer price index has recently de-
clined to 167 (based on 1938 as 100),
and is only one percent higher than
in September 1951, average weekly
earnings in industry had increased
by about five percent between Sep-
tember 1951 and May 1952 and may
since have continued to rise.

By the end of 1951, prices had
stabilized in the Federal Republic
and in other Western industrial
countries, the report said. Sub-
sequently, the German exporter car
no longer expect his foreign cus-
tomers to pay higher prices result-
ing from wage increases as was pos-
sible in 1951. Western Germany is
still among those countries where
the post-Korean price boost has had

26

only minor effects on living costs
while the wages of industrial work-
ers have increased considerably.

The Federal Republic had been
among the industrial countries with
the strongest rise in real wages be-
tween the first half-year of 1950
and mid-1952. It must also be con-
sidered, that the conditions in 1950
were not normal and that losses had
to be compensated. Nevertheless, the
progress achieved is to be considered
as satisfactory.

Exchange Program

West Germany has_ expressed
favorable response to the German-
American Exchange of Persons Pro-
gram and in the main continuation
of the plan for the mutual benefit of
both nations.

A sampling of public opinion by
HICOG’s Reactions Analysis Staff
was made last year after the return
of some 4,000 Germans from visits
in the United States during the past
four years. A cross-section of adults,
none of whom had participated in
the program, in all sections of West
Germany were queried.

About 72 percent of the persons
polled said Germany can profit from
what other nations have to offer.
At the same time, 82 percent com-
mented that other nations have
much to learn from Germany.

In the field of politics, West Ger-
mans were more than reserved in
their expression of opinions. Only
17 percent made any spontaneous
mention of what Germany might
learn politically from other coun-
tries. When specifically queried on
this point, only 47 percent expressed
the opinion that Germany had any-
thing to learn about politics or
government.

A clear majority of those ques-
tioned thought, however, that West
Germany would benefit by the .ap-
plication of United States industrial
and agricultural techniques, and
about half were of the opinion that
Germany might well adopt Amer-
ican mass communications systems.

Only about one-third thought that
there was anything to be gained by
Germany’s studying American ex-
perience in the  political-govern-
mental, educational or labor rela-
tions fields. Some 60 percent said
the United States had nothing to
offer Germany in the arts or with
respect to social welfare.

The survey indicated that roughly
40 percent of all adult West Ger-
mans were acquainted with the
German-American exchange pro-
gram, and that 32 percent were able
correctly to detail some of the
aspects of the program's activities.

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 29 ---
Derequisitioning Continued

More than 1,100 private homes
within the US area in Germany,
formerly held under requisition by
US Forces, were among the 1,428
housing items returned to German
control during the 16 months ending
Nov. 30, 1952, according to a report
on property derequisitioned issued
Jan. 17 by Headquarters, US Army
Europe.

The report, concerned mainly with
the turnback of housing-type pro-
perties between Aug. 1, 1951 and
Nov. 30, 1952, showed that in addi-
tion to the 1,113 private homes
returned to German _ jurisdiction
during the period, a total of 256
apartment houses and 59 hotels or
pensions were derequisitioned.

This latest announcement on the
return of housing facilities to Ger-
man civic and private control aug-
ments the detailed report made by
the then EUCOM Headquarters in
October 1951. At that time the of-
ficial records showed that about
80 percent of all property requisi-
tioned for military use had been
returned to German control as of
Aug. 1, 1951.

Coincident with the all-out effort
to release requisitioned property to
‘German control, US Forces have
conducted an extensive and ac-
celerated housing construction pro-
gram during the same period, in
order that total housing require-
ments for USAREUR personnel
could be met without making any
additional demands on German
residential properties.

Throughout the USAREUR area
during the 16-months period covered
in the report, 1,895 properties of
other types were returned to Ger-
man control. They included office
space, garden land, theaters, garages,
swimming pools, restaurants, schools
and miscellaneous types.

In addition to the derequisition-
ing efforts, the US Government has
added in increasing the German
housing availability through the ex-
tension of financial aid toward con-
struction of more then 157,000 hous-
ing units during the year ending
July 31, 1952. Of that total, 10,800
units were financed up to 35 percent
out of ECA/MSA funds and the
HICOG Special Projects Fund.

Housing construction by US Forces
in the USAREUR area during the
same 16-months period was carried
out in order to accomodate new
requirements resulting from in-
creases in troop strength in the com-
mand. More than 1,500 bachelor ac-
comodations for Army personnel
were constructed, or were under
construction, by US Forces as of
July 31, 1952. The primary purpose
for such construction was to make

FEBRUARY 1953

the necessary living accomodations
available for USAREUR personnel
without making further demands on
German-owned housing.

Housing in West Berlin

Berlin housing construction statis-
tics show that, while East Berlin has
been ballyhooing its efforts, West
Berlin has been quietly and con-

Herve J. L’Heureux, Supervising Consul General of HICOG (left),

sistently outdoing it in actual con-
struction.

Since 1948, nearly 15,000 new
dwelling units have been built and
turned over to occupants in West
Berlin, while, according to a Berlin
Element-HICOG _ survey, reliable
figures indicate that the East has
completed only 7,100 in the same
period. These figures show a clear

Continued on page 28

shakes

hands with Dr. Herbert Schaffarczyck, Counsellor (Vortragender Legations-

rat) of the German Foreign Office, on the occasion of the signing of
new visa agreement between their two countries.

Agreement on Visas

Under an agreement effective
Feb. 1 between the United States
and the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, German visitors to the United
States and its territories are granted
United States non-immigrant visas
free of charge. Effective the same
date the Federal Republic waives
the visa requirement for United
States citizens who are thereafter
able to enter Germany solely on the
basis of their United States pass-
ports.

This agreement marks a step in
the resumption of normal relations
between the Federal Republic of
Germany and the United States.
Under its terms the United States
grants to German nationals the same
status as that enjoyed by nationals
of other western European countries
visiting the United States, and the
Federal Republic affords American

27

the
Photo: PLB-HICOG

citizens the same status as that
already accorded them by other
western European countries.

The agreement provides that Ger-
mans possessing a passport rec-
ognized as valid by the Federal Re-
public will be granted free visas for
an unlimited number of entries ‘into
the United States. The period of
validity of such visas will be 24
months for German nationals, in-
cluding seamen and airline employ-
ees, visiting the United States
temporarily for business reasons or
as tourists and 12 months for Ger-
man diplomatic consular and other
officials, representatives of informa-
tion media, and students.

The agreement does not prejudice
existing regulations in force in the
Federal Republic of Germany and in
the United States governing entries,
temporary and permanent residence,
and employment of aliens.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 30 ---
Continued from page 27

advantage for West Berlin in con-
struction per capita.

West Berlin’s advantage becomes
even clearer if the more than 100,000
repaired dwellings are considered.
In East Berlin, because of shortages
of funds and materials, relatively
few dwellings have been repaired.
Moreover, all information indicates
that West Berlin construction is far
superior in quality to that in East
Berlin.

For the current year, West Berlin
construction will reach a total of
more than 9,000 completed dwellings,
while in East Berlin, despite con-
centration there of nearly all hous-
ing construction activity at the ex-
pense of other cities under Soviet
control, it is becoming apparent
that little more than the 1952 seg-
ment of the Stalin Allee (formerly
Frankfurter Allee) project, about
2,600 dwellings, will be completed.
Industrial building and the con-
struction of military barracks are
cutting deeply into housing construc-
tion in the East.

Housing comprises about 30 per-
cent of West Berlin construction ac-
tivity. About DM 180,000,000
($42,840,000) will be spent for housing
construction this year, of which
more than half is from private
funds, and the remainder from MSA
and GARIOA counterpart aid and
support from the Berlin and federal
budgets.

About 90 percent of the materials
used in housing construction are
purchased in Berlin, thus benefiting
the Berlin economy. Construction
work provides employment for large
numbers of Berliners.

Probe of Theater Group

An investigation of the Wirtschafts-
verband der Filmtheater e. V., Lan-
desverband Hessen (Hessian state
association of movie theaters) was
launched in January by HICOG in
order to determine whether this
group of theater owners was violat-
ing the directive against restrictive
trade practices in the field of licens-
ing and also whether this associa-
tion has committed any offensive
against the US Military Government
Law 56 which forbids combinations
in restraint of trade.

The decision to investigate the
activities of this association was
prompted by published reports of a
meeting of the movie theater owners
in Frankfurt at which the president
in a trade paper article titled “Free-
dom of Trade is Freedom of Fools”
urged all movie theater owners to
band together to prevent the open-
ing of new theaters.

The investigation was to deter-
mine whether the association was

INFORMATION BULLETIN

exercising illegal coercion by means
of threats of boycott against the
financial backers of new theaters in
order to eliminate what it considered
unjustified competition.

To support its motion to introduce
restrictive licensing for movie the-
aters in the Federal area the as-
sociation has distributed to all pro-
spective members a letter by a
movie owner which spoke of “the
viciousness and the daring shame”
involved in the fact that a refugee
from the East had “the audacity to
open a new theater in a location
where one already existed.” This ac-
tion was described by the letter
writer as “dirty business methods.”
The writer concluded by stating that
it should be made clear to the ref-
ugees that they “have to consider
themselves in Hesse as guests and
not to throw other people cut of
their nests lest one day the popula-
tion will be through with the ref-
ugees.”

American Boy Scout Week

More than 4,000 American Boy
Scouts and their leaders in Ger-
many, France and Austria joined
3,250,000 Scouts in the United States
in celebrating the 43rd Anniversary
of their organization during Boy
Scout Week Feb. 7-13.

These themes of the week-long
celebration was “Forward ‘on Lib-
erty’s team,” title of the Scout’s
three-year program which opened
last February. The program sought
to produce a greater functioning
manpower and provide a_ higher
quality program for its increasing
membership.

Boy Scout Week activities in Eu-
rope stressed the Scout family. Boys
introduced members of their families
to their fellow Scouts at open house
meetings.

The actual birthday of the Boy
Scouts of America, Feb. 8, was ob-
served as Scout Sunday by boys of
all faiths. Scouts and their adult
leaders attended church services in
uniform, and many members had
their families sit with the during
services.

By tradition, Scouts and leaders
recommitted ‘themselves to the Scout
oath precisely at 8:15 pm. Feb. 8.
This ceremony took place at an-
niversary dinners and meetings at
the homes of Scouts. Other Scout
week activities scheduled included
courts of honor, scout citizenship
day, scout mobilizations and scout
expositions.

Boy Scout week marked the sec-
ond anniversary of the European
Command Council the only Amer-
ican Boy Scout Council outside the
United States in a report on the past
year activities. Scout Executive Wil-

28

liam E. Hoffman said that scouting
in Germany, France and Austria
enjoyed a tremendous growth during
this time, more than doubling its
membership. There were now more
than 1,800 sub scouts, 800 boy scouts
and 200 explorers in the three coun-
tries. There were also 1,200 Amer-
ican men and women in Europe
registered as leaders.

Commissioner Hoffman said that
there are 103 Scout Units in 55 com-
munities in Germany, France, and
Austria, and more than 70 percent
of all eligible American boys in the
Command were enrolled as Scouts.

Personnel Notes

With Exchange Body

Dr. John F. Mead assumed his
duties Jan. 5, as the first executive
secretary of the United States Ed-
ucational Commission in the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany, com-
monly referred to as the Fulbright
Commission. He was appointed by
the Commission at its meeting
Dec. 15.

As executive Secretary of the US
Educational Commission, Dr. Mead
directs an extensive exchange pro-
gram dealing with higher education
and research.

The program is financed from
funds obtained from the sale of sur-
plus military equipment and sup-
plies that remained in Germany
after the last war. The more than
DM 4,000,000 (equivalent to $952,000)
and $500,000 that are available for
the current year will enable more
than 500 students, professors and
research scholars, approximately
evenly divided between the United
States and Federal Republic, to
study in new environments. The
treaty between the two countries
has been signed for a five-year pe-
riod with provisions for renewal.

Dr. Mead received a bachelor of
arts degree from the West Texas
Teachers College, a master of arts
degree from the University of Texas,
and a doctor of philosophy degree
from the Colorado State College of
Education. After some years of pub-
lic school and university teaching,
he became president of the Amarillo
Junior College in 1937 and served
until 1942.

Dr. Mead is a veteran of both
recent wars, serving with the rank
of first lieutenant in World War I
and major in World War II. Since
1946 he has been with OMGUS and
HICOG as deputy chief of education
and cultural affairs in OMG Wuert-
temberg-Baden and as deputy chief,
Exchanges Branch, of the Division
of Cultural Affairs, HICOG.

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 31 ---
‘SUUUAEAAAUUAGASUOUENLONEE

America’s Occupation Soldiers

Christ und Welt (Protestant
weekly of Stuttgart) began a series
dealing with US “occupation prob-
lems” in Germany. The first ar-
ticle, published in the Dec. 24 issue,
discussed the “problem of occupa-
tion” from the German point of
view, stressing that “animosity and
hatred” stemming from the war and
postwar period are no longer the
predominant features in German-
American relations.

As main sources of continued irrita-
tion and ill feelings between Ger-
man and American personnel, the
paper listed (1) the problem of req-
uisitioned German houses, (2) occa-
sional acts of violence which, ac-
cording to Christ und Welt, are
chiefly an expression of wanton-
ness on the part of US soldiers;
and (3) the “delicate and probably
never fully solvable problem of the
girl friends.” Urging “rigid meas-
ures” on both sides, the paper ap-
pealed to commonsense and reason,
stating that the “only thing worse
than the presence of US forces in
Germany would be their absence.”

The second article, published in
the New Year’s edition, discussed
the problem from the GI’s point of
view, stressing that much has been
and is being done by US authori-
ties to improve German-American
relations. The paper also pointed
out that to many US soldiers, serv-
ice in the Armed Forces means an
unwanted interruption of education
and career, and that occasional ex-
cesses often have their roots in
loneliness and mental depression.

Quick (Munich illustrated week-
ly) in a two-page picture article,
described the way of life of the
US soldier. The magazine obvious-
ly liked the way the American
“citizen in uniform”spends his time
during military training and would
like the future German soldier to
enjoy the same facilities, but

FEBRUARY 1953

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking, The selection has been made so as
to cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press,
and to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion
of any event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence
by US authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced
by the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

raised the question in its headline:
“Who will pay for all this?”

Man of the Year

Several papers prominently car-
ried illustrated reports Jan. 6 on
Chancellor Adenauer’s birthday cel-
ebration an the Bonn Palais Schaum-
burg and the gifts and congratula-
tions presented to the chancellor
from all over the world. In addition,
General-Anzeiger (Bonn) and Frank-
furter Neue Presse (Frankfurt) noted
that the Washington Post had called
Adenauer “the man of the year 1952,
the man who deserves most admira-
tion for his stand and his successes.”

New View of America

Frankfurter Allgemeine, (Frank-
furt, Jan. 3) a conservative daily
and previously not very pro-Amer-
ican, assailed all “arrogant” Ger-
mans who feel that the “German
man” is an individual with special
qualities and who always talks
about the postwar “German econ-
omic miracle.”

“Pretty soon,” Co-publisher Karl
Korn argued, “our ‘efficiency’ will
again be a pain in the neck to
everybody abroad:” there are other
peoples who also have to work
hard to make a living, but they are
wise enough not to brag about it.
The author was even more critical
of those Germans who hold Amer-
ica responsible for the vulgariza-
tion of German culture because it
was the United States who intro-
duced “Coca Cola, nylons and
chewing gum.”

Dr. Korn despisingly wrote of
those who first extended “the beg-
gar’s hand” to America when, after
the last war, “we were the poorest
among the European beggars,” only
to become arrogant again as soon as
their first hunger was satisfied. Dr.
Korn stressed the “cultural import
from the US” brought Germany the

29

EUROPEAN ARMY

Michael: “I saw this last year!”..
Adenauer: “Yes, but popular demand
we've brought it back!” — from Es-
sener Tageblatt (Essen), Dec. 31.

possibility to acquaint itself with
the often valuable products of
American literature, music and the
movie industry. He especially con-
trasted the poor German films with
“the splendid” American picture “An
American in Paris.”

In a second editorial in its Jan.
5 edition the same paper recorded
two human interest stories of the
type familiar to American readers,
but quite unknown to most Ger-
mans. Stressing that children often
play an important part in these
stories, the paper praised Amer-
icans for their love of children,
demanding that the Germans pay
more attention to these stories than
to “horror reports” on subjects like
the US robot man.

Secret Police Week

Deutche Zeitung und Wirtschafts-
zeitung (Stuttgart weekly) dubbed
the week of Jan. 11-17 “secret po-
lice week.” The paper pointed to
the arrest of Soviet doctors; the
revelations of the pro-Communist
espionage activities of US citizens
Verber and Ponger; the British
move against the seven Nazis; and
the East Zone purge.

“Underground” battles are being
fought by individual countries’ sec-
ret police. These battles were
touched off by the change in gov-
ernment in the United States and
the Dulles’ utterances regarding un-
dermining of the Soviet bloc.

The same paper also offered an
explanation of why the Federal
Government was not consulted in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 32 ---
the seven ex-Nazis’ arrest: the Brit-
ish feared that members of this
government might tip off the seven
men about to be arrested.

Reaction to EDC Delay

Most German newspapers devoted
extensive comment in mid-January
to American and European reaction
to the delay in EDC treaty ratifica-
tion caused by the recent French
demand for additional protocols and
amendments to the EDC treaty.

Prominent play was given to US
Senator Alexander Wiley’s statement
that a further delay in treaty rat-
ification by France and Germany
would result in cuts in US foreign
aid to these countries. Papers quoted
Senator Wiley to the effect that
Europe would “deceive itself” by
any further delay of its integration
plans, and that nobody should
believe or try to make believe that
the “clock could be turned back”
without “losing the confidence and
the support of all thinking men.”

According to the Frankfurter All-
gemeine (Frankfurt, Jan. 12) there
may be two considerations which
prompted Senator Wiley to warn
against further EDC treaty ratifica-
tion delay: he cannot see how the
new French premier will reconcile
his promise to “guarantee the unity
of the French army” with the EDC
principle of integration of member
nations’ armies; or, he might be
worried over new trends discernible
in the French press (a recent Le
Monde editorial implied France
would only feel “safe” if either Ger-
many were re-unified and neu-
tralized, or “it were guaranteed that
an armed Germany will, forever,
remain divided”). Should Le Monde
have spoken in behalf of the Quai
d’Orsay Frankfurter Allgemeine con-
cluded, there could be no doubt that
there will be more delay in the solu-
tion of the Western defense issue.

In a strongly anti-French editorial
Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden,
Jan. 12) likewise attacked Le Monde,
accusing it of demanding a West
German defense contribution be
renounced altogether. The Kurier
claimed Senator Wiley’s statement
was addressed to Paris, implying he
did not wish to chide Chancellor
Adenauer, “who certainly has done
everything in his power to build
bridges (to Paris).”

Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf, Jan.
12) claimed Great Britain wants
speedy EDC ratification, only to
restore the world belance of power,
now disturbed by Soviet armament,
not because of European union
arguments impelling on the con-
tinent. The paper said London hopes

FEBRUARY 1953

Europa and the “Bulls”: ...and let
us all be moved by only one thought:
the safeguarding of Europa.” — from
Die Zeit (Hamburg), Jan. 8.

Washington will apply pressure to
have the EDC ratified speedily.

Tagesspiegel (Berlin, Jan. 11) ad-
dressed a sharp warning to French
and German politicians failing to
recognize the necessity of a strong
Western defense system with Ger-
man participation. According to this
paper, Marshal Juin is “the only
man in France without illusions.”
Both Bonn and Paris erroneously
believe they are important wheels
in the machine of world politics,
“but (American) patience will end
as soon as the (European) children
try to enforce their will.”

Columnist Ernst Friedlaender, in
Stuttgarter Nachrichten (Stuttgart,
Jan. 10) was higly critical of Chan-
cellor Adenauer for showing “stub-
born optimism” regarding EDC rat-
ification: the Bonn Government, “for
domestic reasons,” does not want to
admit a “defeat.” Mr. Friedlaender
was strongly opposed to amending
the EDC treaty to provide for na-
tional armies. Should national armies
“be the only solution,” the EDC treaty
would be “buried”: “It may be that
Rene Mayer was compelled to make
concessions to de Gaulle; wecertainly
are not, and the more we stress that
we will contribute to Western de-
fense within a military and polit-
ically integrated Europe only, the
better.”

With few exceptions papers Jan.
13 top-played Chancellor Adenauer’s
foreign policy speech, stressing his
statement that the Federal Govern-
ment stands by the German-Allied
treaties and will by no means per-
mit undue delay in their ratification.
Dr. Adenauer rejected the idea of a
German national army, stressing
there is no alternative to the EDC
treaty. He also urged speedy rat-
ification to “eliminate the possibility
of an East-West agreement at Ger-
man expense” and to prevent Amer-
ica’s losing interest in Europe
altogether.

30

However Telegraf (Berlin Jan. 13)
criticized Chancellor Adenauer for
having again urged treaty ratifica-
tion: “the rigidness with which
Adenauer fights for the Western
treaties and their quick ratification
gives the impression that he is
(determined to) march on his old
road, even if it should lead him
straight into a vacuum.” The paper
also complained that recent French
developments are being “minimized,
interpreted optimistically or simply
overlooked” by Dr. Adenauer; “the
continous American pressure, howev-
er, fits into the picture of the situa-
tion outlined by the chancellor.”

Subscribing to the SPD argument
that the treaties prevent German re-
unification, the paper leveled crit-
icism at America for trying to exert
financial pressure on Germany. Ger-
man wishes for reunification—the
main argument against treaty rat-
ification—could not be overcome by
“hinting with a more or less open
money bag” Telegraf said.

Volksblatt (Berlin, Jan. 13) warned
that the withdrawal of US aid
would affect France as much as
Germany. No country should strug-
gle for European preponderance, the
Paper argued: “If Europe is sur-
rendered to Bolshevism because of
the short-sightedness of its ‘leading
statesman,’ the struggle for political
supremacy in Europe would be
superfluous anyhow.”

Roosevelt Criticized

On the occasion of the tenth an-
niversary of the Casablanca con-
ference, Die Deutsche Zukunft (Dues-
seldorf weekly, late January) crit-
icized the late President Roosevelt
for his “complete lack of conscience
and responsibility” and maintained
that his decision to insist upon Ger-
many’s “unconditional surrender”
was nothing but “a whim, conceived
during breakfast.” The paper based
its criticism of Roosevelt on
Churchill’s | memoirs and Byrnes’
Speaking Frankly.

Television in Germany

Sharing expenses and presenting
a single program were the reasons
for making television the common
business of all western German
radio stations, said Eberhard Beck-
mann of Radio Frankfurt in an in-
terview in the Frankfurter Rund-
schau (Frankfurt, Jan. 21) on the
organization, aims and program of
the German television system which
was inaugurated Dec. 25 by the
Northwest German Radio Corpora-
tion.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
“There were two ways to build
a German television net,” Mr. Beck-
mann said. “The members of the
German Television Commission could
choose between founding an_ in-
dependent corporation or making
television the common business of
all West German radio stations,
including West Berlin.

“For two reasons it chose the
second way: First of all, television
is a costly affair which we can only
afford if the West German radio
stations share the expenses; and
secondly, we can only transmit one
common program since only one
wave band was assigned to us at the
Stockholm conference.”

“In the United States,” Mr. Beck-
mann went on, “people are already
complaining that television disturbs
domestic peace and keeps them from
working, since telecasts, starting at
noon go on until after midnight.
This will not be so here in Germany
where programs will only be trans-
mitted in the evenings from 8 to 10
o’clock and, perhaps later on, during
one hour at noon.

“Our programs will include special
telecasts for our children and in-
teresting technical and _ scientific
features for the adults to satisfy
their desire for knowledge. I suc-
ceeded in making arrangements to
start the international exchange of
television programs in June with the
telecasting of the coronation cer-
emonies in England.

“We also plan an exchange of pro-
grams with America, where telecasts
are already recorded on tapes, as in
broadcasting, to be sent to Europe
afterwards. In planning programs,
we cannot follow the American lines.
In America television is purely a
commercial affair, like broadcasting,
paid by private firms, which, there-
fore, exert influence upon the pro-
grams.

PERSECUTION
OF CHRISTIANS

Genius Stalin: “Those pikers! I’m an all-around man!
— from Niederdeutsche Stimmen (Hanover). Dec. 7.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“We shall also have advertising in
our programs, but, as in broadcast-
ing, television subscribers will have
to pay a monthly fee of DM5 ($1.19).
We hope that all stations from
Hamburg to Munich will be united
in one uniform television net by the
end of this year. Representatives of
all stations will cooperate in making
the programs, taking care that these
will consider the interests of the
various groups of subscribers who
pay for them.”

Juin’s Demand
for German Soldiers

Both Frankfurter Allgemeine
(Frankfurt) and Die Welt (Hamburg)
in lead editorials attributed great
importance to French Marshal Juin’s
Strasbourg speech Jan. 3 favoring
the participation of West German
troops in Western defense. Accord-
ing to Welt, Marshal Juin’s speech
was “first and foremost meant for
domestic consumption;” but in addi-
tion to that, the paper stressed, one
should pay special attention to Mar-
shal Juin’s statement that it would
be better to have a national Ger-
many army outside the EDC than
to have no German soldiers at all.

Welt speculated that the French
marshal may not expect the EDC
treaty to become ratified in its pre-
sent form; should the National As-
sembly subcribe to Marshal Juin’s
“ways of thought” the Bonn Gov-
ernment Coalition as well as the
Opposition may face “an entirely
new situation,” the paper felt, re-
calling that the SPD professedly is
not opposed to German participation
in Western defense “in principle”
but merely rejects the EDC treaty.

‘In an afterthought the paper ad-
mitted that, at least for the time
being, no such development must be

expected to take place in the Na-
tional Assembly, adding, however,
that there are certain points where
“Juin and de Gaulle agree;” thus it
may be possible that, “if there are
some changes in the Palais Bourbon,”
a French policy might develop
which, in turn, may help solve the

treaty ratification “crisis” in the
Federal Republic.
Frankfurter Allgemeine viewed

the problem of German defense
Participation from France’s view-
point; France wants security, fears
German military superiority, and
will continue to do so unless there
is a turn for the better in Indo-
China. “It is Indo-China which
stands between France and us” the
paper argued, but hopefully pointed
to a report by its London cor-
respondent according to which both
London and Washington have rec-
ognized that by helping the French
in Indo-China “one helps (to bring
about integration of) Europe.”

Patent Bids for New Weapons

Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf, Jan.
6) reported that “increasing num-
bers” of patent applications for new
military planes, tanks and other
weapons are being received by the
German patent office.

“Third Disaster”

The New Year's eve edition of the
Hannoversche Presse (Hanover) car-
ried an editorial in which it charged
that:

(1) For centuries Germany’s gov-
ernment always has been based on
the “insatiable desire for power
which is governed by the devil or
even by the principle of inhuman-
ity... the insane and _ excessive
power which wantonly leaves the
Path of law and justice.”

PERSECUTION
OF JEws

31

East Zone purge — thunder in the east. — from Stutt-
garter Zeitung (Stuttgart), Jan. 7.

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 34 ---
(2) Today, too, this ideal of
“power” is present in the minds of
many who hopefully believe that
out of the East-West tension a new
Great German Reich may arise.

(3) Those who hope along these
lines receive impetus from the gov-
ernments in East and West, from
governments which once took up
arms to destroy the German power
state, and who today, seven years
later, sanction the characteristics of
that “power” state.

(4) The Adenauer government
promotes the cause of the financially
privileged classes, has “dreams of
autocratic power,” is lax when deal-
ing with social needs, indifferent
toward democracy, and slanderous
against the SPD.

The paper concluded its four-
column editorial with the warning
that, unless the working class, which
Hannoversche Presse called “the
fourth estate,”* be given its proper
Place in the Federal Republic, Ger-
many would head toward a “third
disaster” (the first ones were pre-
pared in 1914 and in 1933); a “great”
coalition in Bonn in which the SPD
participates would only be desirable
if the “Democratic forces” succeed
“in putting the harness on” cap-
italism, militarism and nationalism.

Official Announcements

Visa Announcement

Minor unmarried stepchildren who
were under 18 at the time of their
parent's marriage to a US citizen are
now eligible to enter the US on a non-
quota visa, the American Consulate Gen-
eral has advised USAREUR headquarters.

This means that any US citizen peti-
tioning for non-quota visas for his (or
her) spouse, unmarried children under
21, or parents, may now include unmar-
ried stepchildren under 21 so long as
they were under 18 at the time of
marriage to the child’s parent.

This change is provided for in the im-
migration nationality act which became
effective last Dec. 24.

The Consulate General also advised
that the Department of Justice is issu-
ing a new form I-133 for petitioning
which does not require the signature of
witnesses. However, until this form is
available, the present form will be used
and completed with the signature of
witnesses.

Effective immediately, a fee of $10
must be sent with either the old or new
form I-133 when it is forwarded to the
Justice Department. The fee may be in
the form of American Express or US
postal money orders or bank drafts made
payable to the Treasurer of the United
States. Personal checks are not accept-
able.—from USAREUR- announcement
Jan. 20.

Enlistment Report “Groundless”
USAREUR Headquarters officials on

Jan. 26 dismissed as without foundation

a Munich newspaper story that a num-

*Not to be confused with the traditional

meaning in the United States for “mem-
bers of the press.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ber of Germans have been allowed to
enlist in the US Army, pointing out that
Army policy prohibits such enlistments.
The newspaper said recently that ap-
proximately 100 stateless Germans and
German nationals who had renounced
their citizenship had been admitted into
the US Army.

USAREUR officials said, “There never
has been a policy that would allow
German nationals or stateless Germans
to enlist in the US Army, and it is not
anticipated that such a policy will be
adopted in the future. Any such policy
would not be consistent with the proper
observance of the sovereignty of the
German Federal Republic.”

“Any German nationals or stateless
Germans who conceal their status in
order to enlist in the US Army would
be discharged as fraudulent enlistees,”
they said.

The only Germans who would be ac-
cepted for enlistment under present
regulations, the officials added, would
be those who had gone to the United
States and obtained American citizenship
through normal channels.

Speed Limits Retained

The present speed limits of 50 miles
an hour (80 km) on open highways and
25 MPH (40 km) in towns and cities
unless zoned otherwise will be retained
indefinitely for US_ privately-owned
vehicles in the US area of control, Head-
quarters, US Army, Europe, announced

Jan. 25. Prescribed speed limits for
military vehicles will also remain in
effect.

The USAREUR action followed the pas-
sage in December of a German federal
law removing speed limits for passenger
motor vehicles on all highways in the
nation effective Jan. 23. Speed limits
for German passenger vehicles in towns
and cities are left to the discretion of
the individual community governments.

The new German law allows motorists
not subject to USAREUR regulations to
choose their own speeds but holds them
more strictly accountable for their judg-
ment if they are involved in an accident.

US safety experts have had the new
German law under study since late
December, officials said, and the decision
to retain speed limits for US vehicles is
based on their findings.

The safety engineers reported that
present road and traffic conditions in the
US area of control make fast driving a
hazardous undertaking and said that it
is imperative that speed limits be
retained.

They pointed out that the majority of
roads in the nation are not built for high
speed motor vehicle traffic. Even the
Autobahn (super highway), which is
built for fast motor vehicle traffic, is
hazardous, they said, because of the
many construction and repair projects
underway.

USAREUR officials added that the
USAREUR motor vehicle-connected ac-
cident experience is steadily improving
under current speed controls despite the
increase in traffic on German highways.
Aggressive traffic safety engineering, ed-
ucational and enforcement programs,
plus defensive driving attitudes of
USAREUR personnel are largely respon-
sible for the favorable experience, they
stated.

The USAREUR announcement said
that the speed limits will apply to all
members’ of the US Armed Forces in
Germany, US, Allied and neutral civilian
employees and their dependents, as well
as to the personnel and dependents of
accredited agencies or individuals whose
private A- and C-plate vehicles are now
registered with the USAREUR motor
vehicle registrar. Authorized personnel
of diplomatic agencies will be issued an
H-plate registration for their privately-

32

owned vehicles and must adhere to
USAREUR’s speed controls. However,
HICOG authorities will register and
enforce speed controls for vehicles bear-
ing H-plates.

US, allied and neutral civilian employ-
ees and members of the US Armed
Forces and their dependents stationed
outside of Germany will be required to
comply with the USAREUR J traffic
regulations while operating military or
civilian vehicles within the US area of
control.

USAREUR officials said that vehicle
registration and related privileges can
be withdrawn from members of the US
Armed forces, US, Allied and neutral
employees and dependents, as well as
personnel of accredited agencies if they
or their dependents are apprehended for
exceeding the speed limits established
by USAREUR.

Limitations on Industry

The High Commissioners of the United
Kingdom, the United States of America
and France, on behalf of their respective
governments, concluded Dec. 31 an
agreement on limitations on industry
which supplements the Agreement on
Industrial Controls concluded by them
April 30, 1951.°

The 1951 Agreement continued certain
of the prohibitions and limitations on
industry. After the restrictions on steel
production capacity and steel production
were lifted July 25, 1952, the remaining
limitations related solely to the produc-
tion capacity of the shipbuilding, syn-
thetic rubber, synthetic oil, precision
ball and roller bearings industries.

Under the new agreement, which does
not affect existing controls related to
items of a military nature, these few
limitations will remain in effect, but
only until the parliaments of the Repub-
lic of France and the Federal Republic
of Germany have finally voted on the
laws for the approval of the Bonn Con-
ventions and of the European Defense
Community.

During the remaining period of valid-
ity of these limitations, the high com-
missioners will take account of the
increased needs of industry in the Fed-
eral Republic when considering applica-
tions for exemptions.

The text of the new “Agreement Sup-
plemental to the Agreement on Industrial
Controls” follows:

Article I

Except as may subsequently be agreed
among the Governments parties to the
present Agreement, the limitations laid
down in the Agreement concerning In-
dustrial Controls signed on the 3rd April,
1951, (as amended by the Agreement
signed on the 25th July, 1952) shall con-
tinue in force after the 31st December,
1952, and until 21 days after the later of
the following two dates, whereupon they
shall cease to have effect:

(a) the date on which the Parliament
of the Federal Republic of Germany
shall finally vote on the Laws for the
approval of the Conventions signed at
Bonn on the 26th May, 1952, and of the
Treaty establishing the European Defense
Community signed at Paris on the 27th
May, 1952;

(b) the date on which the Pariuament
of the French Republic shall finally vote
on the Laws for the approval of the said
Conventions and of the said Treaty.

Article Ir

This Agreement shall enter into effect
on the ist January, 1953.

*For text see Information Bulletin, May
1951, page 64. Also note “Revised Plan
for Level of Industry,” Issue No. 109,
Sept. 8, 1947, page 11 and «prohibited,
Limited Industry is Defined,” Issue
No, 160, May 3, 1949, page 7.

FEBRUARY 1953

--- Page 35 ---
Done at Bonn-Mehlem on the thirty-
first day of December, 1952, in the Eng-
lish and French languages, both texts
being equally authentic.

Non-Duty Rail Tickets

US civilian employees of the Armed
Forces, their dependents and dependents
of US military personnel may use their
AGO cards for identification in buying
non-duty rail tickets on the German fed-
eral railroad.

As in the past, those who have valid
EES ration cards will use them as iden-
tification for non-duty travel purchases.
But personnel who may not have this
card with them when buying a ticket can
use the WD AGO Form 65 as identifica-
tion.

The new agreement with the German
federal railroad will benefit those who
have AGO cards but not EES ration
cards.—from USAREUR announcement
Feb. 1.

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received during January in
the editorial office of the Information
Bulletin. Requests for any of these pub-
lications should be addressed to the
originating agency.

Monthly Report of the Mutual Security
Agency, Division of Statistics and Re-
ports, Mutual Security Agency (Wash-
ington), Sept. 30, 1952. Issue deals with
European Coal and Steel Community
(the Schuman Plan).

Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVIII, No. 706, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Jan. 5,
1953. Articles include “U.S. Denounces
Soviet Charges of ‘Mass Murder’ of
Prisoners,” statements by Philip C.
Jessup and Ernest A. Gross.

Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVIII, No. 707, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Jan. 12,
1953. Articles include “Witnessing the
Birth of a New Europe” by Ambassador
Myron M. Cowan.

Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVIII, No, 708, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Jan. 19,
1953. Articles include text of “The State
of the Union,” message by President
Truman.

Official Gazette, No. 99, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Bonn-
Mehlem), Jan. 27, 1953. Official text of
recent legislation enacted by, and
under authority of, the Allied High
Commission.

Information Bulletin for December, In-
formation Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Jan. 26,
1953.

Soviet Zone Theater Being Reorganized

HE THEATER in the East Zone of Germany is

undergoing reorganization to fit Soviet notions of
what the theater should be. This reorganization, which
followed criticism of the handling of the Soviet drama
festival week last November, aims at eliminating
“formalism” and “modernism” from musical, dramatic
and dance performances.

In effect, according to an observation by cultural
affairs officials of Berlin Element, HICOG, the re-
organization amounts to an elimination of original and
experimental elements in the theater and almost cer-
tainly means a decline in the influence on the theater
of persons like Bertold Brecht, Paul Dessau and a few
other East Zone composers and dramatists of interna-
tional reputation.

That the “new” Soviet-style theater will substitute
political indoctrination for dramatic training and stretch
or chop dramatic intent to fit the Procrustean bed of
“Soviet method” was made clear by reports from the
recent “Theater Congress of the German Democratic
Republic” held in East Berlin under the chairmanship of
Prof. Otto Lang. Professor Lang, a member of the
State Commission for Culture, spoke on “The Soviet
Theater—our Model in the Struggle for Socialist Real-
ism on the German Stage.”

wre in the Maerkische Volksstimme (Potsdam,
Jan. 23), Walter Lehmann summarized the work of
this congress of directors, dramatists and actors as fol-
lows: “The main problem is the further development of
theater in the German Democratic Republic* according
to Soviet methods ...In this, the partisan attitude
of the actor, that is, the political attitude of the actor
toward society is decisive. Without this partisan at-
titude, he cannot educate people to patriotism, peace
and the building of socialism...only the deep study
of Marxism-Leninism enables the actor to fulfill these
high purposes.”

‘local name applied to governing setup in Soviet Zone.

FEBRUARY 1953 33

The application of Soviet methods to music and
opera was explained in an article, “The Tasks of the
German State Opera, in Neues Deutschland (East Ber-
lin, Dec. 19). There again, the goal is “to educate the
working people to patriotic spirit.” This can be done,
according to Neues Deutschland, either by “struggling
to create a new German national opera” or by the sim-
pler expedient of presenting Russian operas, since
Glinka, Moussorgsky, Rimski-Korsakov, Tschaikovsky
and Borodin were, in some mysterious fashion, socialist
realist composers without knowing it.

Criticizing the efforts of the German State Opera in
East Berlin, Neues Deutschland continued, “To date the
German State Opera has unfortunately not been the
mainspring in the struggle for realism in opera. The
responsible persons have repeatedly tolerated crass
formalist experiments. Take ‘Lucullus’ by Paul Dessau
and Bertold Brecht, for example. It is clear that such
music destroys the character of the State Opera because
it is inimical to the people and anti-national in tend-
ency.”

HE SOVIET drama festival week which caused the
demand for reorganization of the East Zone theater,
was described in a critical article in Neue Zeit (East
Berlin, Nov. 19). Under the headline, “A ‘Festival’ No
One Noticed,” the writer complained, “The Kammer-
spiele presented not one single Soviet play during the
Festival Week. The Deutsche Theater and the Brecht
Ensemble did not exactly roll up their sleeves either.
They simply continued to present the Soviet plays al-
ready in the program... The State Opera too slipped
more or less elegantly out of the situation by throwing
into the program all the Slavic operas they had in their
regular repertoire. In the new Maxim Gorki Theater,
the Festival Week was marked by a completely gro-
tesque response — the theater was closed four days of

the week.”
+ END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 36 ---
“Green Week,” Berlin’s annual ag-
ricultural fair, attracted thousands
of visitors, including many from the
Soviet Zone, during the first week
in February. A pictorial feature on
the exhibition will appear in the
March issue of the Information Bul-
letin. (BE-HICOG photo)