--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

--- Page 3 ---
Mississippi
Panorama

An exhibition of more than 80 paintings, water-color
drawings and photographs, depicting the landscape and
life of the Mississippi-Missouri river valley in the United
States, attracted crowds to the Eichen Gallery in the Char-
lottenburg Palace in Berlin during March.

The exhibition, sponsored by the US Information Center
in Berlin, was opened with a formal ceremony on March 7.
at which the speakers were Herwin Schaefer, chief of the
HICOG Exhibits Section in Frankfurt, and Dr. Joachim Ti-
burtius, Berlin senator for education. Presenting a program
of spirituals and songs of the Old South was the famed
“Winged Victory Chorus“ of the US 43rd Division.

Included in the collection were works of artists who had
emigrated from Germany, France and Switzerland, as well
as from others who had made trips with early expeditions
in the Mississippi region.

(Photographs from Information Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG)

“Bayou Teche” by Joseph Rusling Meeker

“View of Weston, Missouri“ by August G. Beller

“Steamer J. M. White“ by Oscar E. Berningh

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin’ is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations,
and activities of the United States
mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff

Editor .............. H. Warner Waid
Co-Editor ............ Frank H. Jonas
Assistant Editor ..Henry A. Goodman
Feature Writer ........ Carl Neuhof
Secretary .. Rita Schmidt
Typist ............ Ruth Gnewikow

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40-43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8728, 8896, 8958

Mehlem Office
HICOG Building, Wing V, Room 321
Telephone: Mehlem 3073

The Information Bulletin is assembl-
ed, prepared, and published by the
Information Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed by Broenners Druckerei,
Breidenstein, Frankfurt/M.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries and distribution should be
addressed to:

Information Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 80, US Army

Correspondence concerning inquir-
ies-and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

Final Issue

Table of Contents

March 1953
Mississippi Panorama .................. inside front cover
Pictorial feature
James B. Conant ........5.... 0000 e cece eee eee eee 3
Introductory article
Escapee Program ............. 00 eee cece eens 6

Article by Edward W. Lawrence

One Year on the Border 9.
Article by John D. Healy

Teachers with Ideas ............. 00.0.0 cece cece eee eee 11
Article by Dr. Frank H. Jonas

Clemency Procedure .............. 0.000 cee ee eee ee eee 13
Article by Richard C. Hagan

Secretary Dulles and MSA Director Visit Bonn .......... 15

Information Bulletin ..................0.. 00. ce eee eee 16
Valedictory letter from the editor

Content ........... cece cece cece eee een e ee aes 17
Listing of articles by issues

indextee eee CeCe eCe eee TEC E EEE EEC Er erent 45
Alphabetic listing of titles

Communist Propaganda .....................0e cece eee 56

Reproduction of map

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
(Above) Dr. Conant, on arriving Feb. 10 at his office in the HICOG headquarters in
Mehlem, near Bonn, received the salute of the coloriul US Marine Guard. With
him was was Samuel Reber, deputy US high commissioner. (Right) Mrs. Conant,
arriving two days later at the Rhine-Main Airport near Frankfurt, was greeled by
the new high commissioner and by Lloyd Wilson (left), airline official in Frankfurt

Mrs. Conant is presented a bouquet by a Prof. Ernst Reuter, governing ma- Dr. Conant paid his formal call on
young refugee from eastern German yor of Berlin, welcomes new high Dr. Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of the
during visit to refugee camp in Berlin. commissioner to former capital. German Federal Republic, in Bonn Feb, 12.

Dr. Conant met representatives of the American, Allied and German press shortly after his arrival. (Left) His first conference was
held Feb. 12 in the headquarters building in Mehlem. (Right) At his Berlin press conference Feb. 18, he was flanked by Maj. Gen.
Thomas 8. Timberman, (right), US commander, Berlin, and Robert Lochner, chief of H. IG’S Press Branch, who served as inter-
preter. (Photographs by N. Gassner, PLB-ID-HICOG; Schubert, Berlin Element, HICOG, and K. Hopp, American Consulate General, Frankfurt)

--- Page 6 ---
Dr. James B. Conant

US High Commissioner for Germany

D* JAMES BRYANT CONANT, eminent American
scientist, educator, author und statesman, stated on
taking the oath of office as US high commissioner for Ger-
many:

“The tasks awaiting me in Germany have world-wide
implications. The security of all free nations is closely
linked to the continued development of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, which in turn requires the formation
of a European defense force as provided in the EDC
treaties. There must be a continued progress in bringing to
fruition the plans already laid, and I trust that progress
will be made in the coming months...”

“My predecessors as US high commissioners for Ger-
many have laid the sure foundations on which we must
build as rapidly as we can. They established the basis for
that happy relation which now exists between the people
of the free, democratic Federal Republic of Germany and
the United States. It is my hope that my efforts may be of
some avail in strengthening still further the cultural and
political ties between the two nations.”

Speaking two days later in an interview for the Voice
of America, Dr. Conant said:

“The peaceful reunification of Germany remains one of
the major goals in American policy. I shall do everything
in my power to help carry out this policy... Our position
in Berlin can be held and must be held...”

MARCH 1953

Moving quickly after his appointment had been con-
firmed and he had been sworn into office, Dr. Conant
arrived Feb. 10 at Rhine-Main Airport near Frankfurt and
went to his office at the HICOG headquarters in Mehlem,
near Bonn. He began a series of conferences and trips to
get acquainted at first-hand with the officials, people, con-
ditions and activities in Germany.

Dr. Conant was met at the Rhine-Main Airport by
Samuel Reber, who had been acting high commissioner
since the departure of Walter J. Donnelly in December;
Glenn G. Wolfe, HICOG executive director; Alfred V. Boer-
ner, public affairs director; Michael S. Harris, MSA direc-
tor for western Germany, and Herve J. L'Heureux, HICOG
supervising consul general.

At his arrival in Bonn, he was welcomed by German
officials including Walter Hallstein, deputy foreign
minister; Herbert Blankenhorn, political adviser to the
Foreign Office, and Hans von Herwarth, Foreign Office
chief of protocol. He went immediately to the HICOG
headquarters to inspect the offices and confer with HICOG
officials.

The next day, Dr. Conant paid his first official call to
Prof. Theodor Heuss, president of the Federal Republic, but
spent most of the day in his office conferring with HICOG
directors. Illness of the federal chancellor delayed the
meeting with Dr. Konrad Adenauer until the following-day.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
De CONANT held his first press conference in the Meh-

lem headquarters on Feb. 12, pointing out specifically
to the news correspondents that the 1945 Potsdam Agree-
ment was not included in President Eisenhower's denuncia-
tion of "secret agreements” leading to enslavement of peop-
les, He said, “It is my understanding that the President's
statement about secret treaties does not affect the agree-
ments on Germany which were not secret treaties in this
sense in which he was using the term.”

A review of the general conditions in Germany was
presented by Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, British high commis-
sioner, and André Francois-Poncet, French high commis-
sioner, at their first meeting with Dr. Conant in the latter's
office Feb. 13. Immediately after the meeting, Dr. Conant
left for Frankfurt to meet Mrs. Conant who arrived at
Rhine-Main Airport from the United States.

His meeting with the leader of the principal political
opposition to the federal government, Erich Ollenhauer,
chairman of the Social Democratic Party, was held the next
day. Dr. Conant announced his plan to meet with the
leaders of all western German major political parties.

After visiting Cologne Monday, Feb. 16, to witness the
pre-Lenten carnival parade, Dr. and Mrs. Conant went to
Berlin where the high commissioner conferred with Mayor
Ernst Reuter and his staff, visited Berlin Element's head-
quarters and toured refugee camps in the city. Dr. Conant
paid a formal call on General Vassily I. Chuikov, com-
mander-in-chief of the Soviet occupation forces in eastern
Germany. He also held a press conference with correspond-
ents in Berlin.

D*x¢ HIS two-day visit in Berlin, Dr. Conant deli-
vered his first major address, speaking over Rias, the
US-operated radio station which reaches all parts of eastern
Germany although listening to RIAS is forbidden by the
local regime. In the course of his address, the high commis-
sioner declared:

“During the Berlin blockade, all of us in the United
States eagerly scanned news each day from this city and
we admired the steadfast spirit of its citizens. For us, Ber-
lin became a symbol of courage... Today, it is famous as
an outpost of Western civilization. It is the home of
brave men and women who continue the tradition of
European culture in the face of the attempts of the Soviets
to enforce a new type of alien culture and fasten a tyranny
upon free people...”

“The new administration in Washington will not abandon
Berlin. The United States is pledged to do its part to see to
it that this city continues as an unshaken outpost of the
Western world. We shall continue to insist on the free
circulation throughout the entire city. We shall continue
to fulfill our duties and to maintain our rights. Our rights
as a joint occupying power in Berlin derive from the defeat
and surrender of Germany and are defined in the agree-
ments of the Four Powers.

“Unfortunately, neither the spirit nor the letter of these
agreements is being carried out in one sector of this city.
The United States in cooperation with the other two
Western powers, is determined to keep open the lines of
communications with Berlin. I can assure you there will be
no faltering in our determination.

“I have come to Berlin to remind the Berliners once
again that they are in no sense inhabitants of a forgotten
city — quite the contrary. Everyone in the United States

INFORMATION BULLETIN

knows full well that here the two contending forces of this
mid-twentieth century stand face to face. The refugees who
are daily crossing from the East Zone to the West provide
tragic evidence of what all Germany could expect if Ger-
many were unified on Soviet terms. You here in Berlin
need not be told that the reunification of Germany, which
is an objective of my government, can only be con-
templated in terms of extending, not limiting, the freedom
enjoyed by three sectors of this city. Unity in freedom is
our goal.”

“The increasing number of refugees presents a grave
problem... I shall during the next few days discuss with
Mayor Reuter and Chancellor Adenauer the exact nature
of the present emergency requirements and the ways in
which the United States Government might assist in dealing
with them.”

“Tam going to study as rapidly as I can how the con-
ditions of life of this city can be improved and its economy
made more healthy and how the unemployment may be
drastically reduced. That we shall work toward a goal of
making this city a healthy industrial center is the assurance
I can give you at this time.”

OLLOWING THEIR return from Berlin, Dr. and Mrs.

Conant paid an official visit Feb. 20 to the US Army
Europe Headquarters in Heidelberg where a review of
Army, Navy and Air Forces units was presented for the zi
high commissioner. Dr. Conant visited the US Information
Center and Heidelberg University, while Mrs. Conant in-
spected the WAC facilities and was informed of the Armed
Forces Assistance Program to German Youth Activities.
They were the guest of General Manton S. Eddy, USAREUR
commander-in-chief, and Mrs. Eddy at dinner.

Dr. Conant joined Professor Heuss on Feb. 21 for the
ceremony of opening the new student house at the Uni-
versity of Frankfurt. The house, for which HICOG financed
nearly one-third of the cost of construction, was started
May 25, 1951 with the laying of the cornerstone by John J.
McCloy, then US high commissioner. The building is a
four-story structure containing housing facilities for 94
male and 31 female students, a 400-seat auditorium, a non-
denominational chapel and other student rooms.

Attending the cermony for the opening of the student house
of the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in Frankfurt
Feb, 21 were (left to right): Dr. Max Horkheimer, rector of
the university; Dr. Conant; Prof. Theodor HeuB, president
of the German Federal Republic, and August Zinn, minister
president of the state of Hesse. (AMCONGEN photo by Hopp)

MARCH 1953 —

--- Page 8 ---
During his speech in German at the ceremony, Dr.
-Conant remarked, “The time in which our cultural and
social institutions fall behind the rapid progress of tech-
niques must be overcome, especially in view of the danger
of Communism. The framework, also, which marks the
boundaries of university life, should be adapted to the
most modern demands.”

D* CONANT, who had retired as president of Harvard
University to accept the appointment as high commis-
sioner, was the subject of a biographical sketch distributed
throughout Germany by Amerika Dienst, the US feature
service, at the time of his arrival. A translation of the
article follows.

To the important post of high commissioner for Germany, the
United States has dispatched one of its most distinguished and
capable citizens: Dr. James Bryant Conant.

Dr. Conant is a man particularly qualified to interpret United
States ideals and aspirations to the leaders and people of Ger-
many. For in the annals of diplomacy Dr. Conant stands out as
a rare and most unusual person because he has achieved inter-
national recognition and respect in three vital areas of Western
civilization: education, science, government.

In education, James Bryant Conant has served since 1933 as
president of Harvard, America’s oldest and most famous uni-
versity, which consists of a staff of 2,500, some 11,000 students,
and an annual budget of over $ 25,000,000. During the twenty
years that he held this post he has ‘been praised throughout the
world as America’s foremost educator. He pioneered in the
general education movement which seeks to balance specialization
with broader training in the arts, humanities and social sciences.
He established a $ 100,000-a-year program of Harvard National
Scholarships to bring talented though needy students to the
college and graduate schools, Thus promising students received
as much as $ 1,800 a year to continue their studies and in 1952
some 150 men attended Harvard under this plan. He also originated
the idea to promote better journalism by creating the Nieman
awards for opportunities for advanced study at Harvard for
outstanding newspapermen.

In science, Dr. Conant's record is equally meritorious, For he
has engaged in scientific research not for the sake of science
alone but also for the sake of mankind. In the field of organic
chemistry he made several significant advances, so that in 1932
he was awarded a medal by the American Chemical Society
for his outstanding work in chlorophyll (the green coloring matter
in plants) and in 1934 hé received a medal from the American
Institute of Chemists for achievements in chemistry notably for
his research in the nature of hemoglobin (the coloring in red
corpuscles). He is also the author of two chemistry textbooks
widely used today in American colleges.

In government, Dr. Conant was a key figure not only because
of his scientific knowledge but also because of his outstanding
administrative ability. Thus international events have invariably
drawn him into public life. When the United States entered
World War II, Dr. Conant assembled a group of scientists to
work on the problem of making an atomic bomb. With the
formation of the Manhattan District — the atomic bomb project
— Dr. Conant became scientific adviser to General Leslie R.
Groves, who was in command there. Dr. Conant was the organizer,
moderator and catalyst for the entire $ 2,000,000,000 wartime
research program,

When World War II ended, Dr. Conant continued to serve as
adviser on atomic energy. He went to Moscow with Secretary
of States James F, Byrnes to act as adviser on control of atomic
weapons, He lectured on atomic energy at the National War
College. He advised the American delegation to the United
Nations on atomic matters. He has also served on the general
advisory committee to the Atomic Energy Commission until the
fall of 1952.

He was the first chairman in 1950 of the National Science
Foundation, organized to promote the development of new

MARCH 1953

scientific talent and knowledge. Later that year, Dr. Conant
and a group of 25 leaders in American life formed the Committee
on the Present Danger, which advocated universal military train-
ing for all and urged every effort to keep Europe strong against
the threat of Communism.

In the fields of education, science and government, James
Bryant Conant’s successful record has demostrated that he is
firm, calm, highly intelligent, arid extremely capable.

His wide experience in these three important fields also
indicates that he can contribute significantly to the development
of a firm friendship between Americans and Germans and to the
peaceful association of Germans with other free people who are
their neighbors.

He knows that Communism is as dangerous on the ideological
front as it is on the military front. But because he has taken the
full measure of the Communist threat, he understands how best
to combat it.

The man who has traveled this strategic road from Boston
to Bonn has an interesting biography. James Bryant Conant was
born on March 26, 1893, at Dorchester, Mass., a quiet residential
commuaiy that is part of the city of Boston. His ancestors
originally came from England to America on the historic ship-
“Mayflower. One of his forbears was Governor William Brad-.
ford, second governor of the Plymouth Colony.

His father, a veteran of the Civil War, was one of the earliest
photo-engravers and stimulated his son’s study of chemistry
by regular visits to the engraving plant. As a result, young
Conant enrolled at a nearby private school — Roxbury Latin
School — famous for the excellence of its science courses, There
he soon became known as the most precocious chemistry student
ever to attend that school. At home he also carried on chemistry
experiments in a laboratory built by his father. Thus James
Bryant Conant entered Harvard in 1910, at the young age of 17,
and. had then already completed the equivalent of two years
of college chemistry.

At Harvard, Conant made Phi Beta Kappa, a scholastic society
for outstanding students, and also earned his bachelor of arts
degree, magna cum laude, in three years’ study instead of the
customary four.

By 1916, at the age of 23, Conant had received his doctorate
of philosophy and that summer together with two fellow Harvard
graduates, opened a laboratory to manufacture wartime scarce
coal tars and other chemicals. During this period he also
discovered a new way to make benzoic acid, and that summer
was appointed a chemistry instructor at Harvard and later served
as an Army major in the Chemical Warfare Service.

By 1919 Dr, Conant was back at Harvard, working for Prof.
Theodore W. Richards, a Nobel prize winner in chemistry, whose
daughter he married two years later. During 1925, Dr. Conant
lived for eight months in Germany, where he studied methods
of research and instruction in several universities. When the
1920's came to a close, Dr. Conant was already a full professor
in chemistry at Harvard.

Dr. Conant has also received critical acclaim as an author.
In 1942 he wrote “Our Fighting Faith’, a collection of five
addresses he made to Harvard students on the ideals and duties
of youth in a time of crisis. In 1947, he brought out “On Unter-
standing Science,’ a series of lectures he delivered at Yale
University to give non-science students a better understanding
of science. The following year he wrote ‘Education in a Divided
World,” which discussed the function of the public schools in
American society. In 1951, he wrote ‘Science and Common
Sense,‘ a book for the layman living in a time that is being
revolutionized by the application of scientific concepts they do
not fully grasp. One year later he brought out, “Modern Science
and Modern Man," and early in 1953 his latest book will be
published: ‘Education and Liberty, the Role of the Schools in
a Modern Democracy”.

James Bryant Conant has received honorary degrees from
some thirty colleges and universities, including Oxford and
Cambridge in England. He has been a memeber of the board
of scientific directors of the Rockefeller Institute since 1930.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
(Left) Through an arrangement with the Free University of Berlin, advanced dental students treat newly-arrived escapees

with materials furnished by escapee program. (Right) Part of the vocational training is watch-making instruction at
_ Ingolstadt, Bavaria,

(Photos from Escapee Program)

The Escapee Program

By Edward W. Lawrence

Chief, Program Division, Office of Field Coordination, Escapee Program

‘HE ESCAPEE program is a comprehensive humanitarian

effort on the part of the United States Government to
assist the escapees — nationals of Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, Albania, Bulgaria, Rumania, the Baltic States or
the USSR, fleeing from persecution and despair in the
Soviet dominated countries in eastern Europe — to esta-
blish themselves in the free Western World and to provide
them with certain measures of care and maintenance from
the time of arrival in a country of asylum until their final
permanent resettlement in one of the countries of immi-
gration.

From the moment an escapee enters the territory of
Germany, Austria, Greece or other country bordering the
Soviet-run prison and workhouse countries and, seeking
asylum, contacts the border officials, the escapee Program
offers him assistance. After evading the dogs and shoot-
on-sight patrols and after crossing the barbed wire en-
tanglements, mine fields and other barriers designed to
prevent escape, the escapee, hungry, empty handed, desti-
tute. inadequately clothed, often sick and ill nourished, is
offered friendly assistance of a welfare nature and, even
more important, hope for the future.

The assistance from the Escapee Program first reaches
the escapee in the form of a “‘welcome kit” containing toilet
articles and other amenity supplies so necessary to the
individual for his comfort and to enable him to maintain
his appearance and self respect. At this initial period, where
necessary, the Escapee Program also supplements the
assistance in the form of shelter, medical assistance and
food provided by the government of the country in which
he is seeking haven.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

WORD here about the method of operation of the

sscapee Programm in Europe. The Governments of the
many countries of asylum, beset as they are with problems
of immense proportions involving refugees of ethnic origin
similar to their native populations, suffering from over-
population, and other economic difficulties, are striving
to provide everyone within their respective areas of re-
sponsibility with adequate food, clothing and shelter. They
are, nevertheless, unable to do all that they might wish
to do for the individual escapee.

The US Government, believing that the escapee from
Soviet oppression is the concern of not just the country
of asylum but of other countries of the free world as well,
lends its aid through the Escapee Program to supplement
the basic subsistence provided by the asylum countries.
This US assistance is channeled to the escapee through the
facilities of numerous world-wide national and _ inter-
national voluntary welfare organizations.

To date more than 10,000 escapees have been registered
with the Escapee Program. They are located principally in
western Germany and Austria, Italy, Greece, Turkey, the
Free Territory of Trieste with lesser numbers in other
western European Countries. The Escapee Program assists
these people through a threefold undertaking and its budg-
et reflects this policy. The Program provides supplemen-
tary care and maintenance during the period the individual
is in the country of initial asylum; through counseling,
vocational and language training and medical or dietory
assistance, it assists the individual to obtain an opportunity
for immigration to a country of resettlement; and, finally,
it provides him with free ocean transportation to his new
home.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 10 ---
(Left) Paul Viboch, newspaper editor and former member of Czechoslovak parliament, and his family wait at Munich
airport to board plane for US. (Right) Kindergarten children at Valka Camp in Bavaria enjoy modern washing facilities.

Bs acai typical examples of the humanitarian assistance
provided in the form of care and maintenance may be
seen in Greece where escapees resident in the Greek Govern-
ment refugee installation at Lavrion were all provided with
new shoes, in Austria where the basic ration provided by
the Austria Government to escapees has been augmented
by the Program, and in Germany where escapees in Valka
Camp near Nuremberg are enabled to go into a German
department store and choose warm attractive clothing for
themselves and their families.

The Program, working with the National Catholic Wel-
fare Conference in Italy, provides escapees with medical
and dental care, and in Turkey, working with the Refugee
Service Committee, beds, mattresses and blankets were
purchased to ease the hard life of the refugees. The World
Council of Churches, the Lutheran World Federation and
the American Joint Distribution Committee and many other
agencies are partners with the Escapee Program in provid-
ing the escapee in Berlin with food and clothing.

These are but isolated examples of the comprehensive
program for providing supplementary care and mainte-
nance designed to meet every basic need of the escapee
wherever they are. In Turkey alone where the number of
escapees is relatively small the Program has contracted to
spend $ 39,141 to provide the escapees there with adequate
care, Similar expenditures in other asylum countries
provide supplementary care and maintenance in form of
food, clothing, housing, and amenity supplies. In Trieste
clothing and housing repairs are provided by Allied Mili-
tary Government.

EALIZING that escapees require more than a dole and

more than public assistance, the Program has embarked
upon an extensive plan to equip the escapees for providing
for themselves in a country of resettlement or in the econ-
omy of the country in which they are resident. Thus,
escapees are sent to vocational guidance schools in. Ger-
many and other countries: they are taught English, Portu-
guese, Spanish and other languages to assist them in estab-
lishing themselves.

In Germany at Ingoltadt and at Foehrenwald escapees
are taught such crafts and trades as metal working, leather

MARCH 1953 7

working, tailoring and shoe repair to make them more able
to take their rightful place in the Free World. At Lavrion
in Greece and at Mercatello in Italy, language training is
part of the-Escapee Program. Similar vocational and
language training projects are in operation in each of the
asylum countries.

Many escapees, after years of inadequate diet and in-
sufficient medical attention behind the curtain of despair,
persecution and poverty in the Soviet-dominated countries,
are in ill health when they arrive and require special feed-
ing and medical attention. The Escapee Program fulfills
this requirement. By assisting the escapees in this way the
Program enables them to meet the physical and health
standards of resettlement countries.

Richard R. Brown being sworn in as director of the Office
of Field Coordination, Predident's Escapee Program, with
George Riddiford, Division of Foreign Service Personnel,
Department of State, officiating. With headquarters in
Frankfurt, Mr. Brown, coordinates the activities of the
escapee units attached to US missions in Europe and the
Near East and these activities with the humanitarian work
of US voluntary agencies in Europe on behalf of escapees.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
N STILL another way the Escapee Program assists the

individual to establish himself in his country of residence
or, more often, to seek a new home in a country of resettle-
ment. This is through a series of projects in each asylum
country to provide the escapee with expert counseling
assistance to help him to determine his ultimate country
of resettlement and, after this is chosen, to aid him in ob-
taining an immigration visa for that country.

Still working through the voluntary agencies the Program
has called upon these experienced organizations to prepare
dossiers and social histories on each escapee for presenta-
tion to resettlement missions and consulates of resettle-
ment countries in order that the escapees skills, education
and experience may be placed in the most favorable light
to the end that he may be selected for .resettlement.
Dossiers of this nature are also useful in finding local
employment for escapees.

Under this scheme each individual is interviewed and his
wishes, hopes, ambitions and interests are carefully dis-
cussed with a view to finding the most satisfactory solution
for his particular case. Experience has shown that this type
of personal service to the escapee is one of the most im-
portant factors in raising his morale and making him feel
that he is welcome in the Free World.

In connection with these counseling projects the Escapee
Program has undertaken to pay the actual costs involved
in obtaining a visa for the escapee unable to meet the not
inconsiderable charges for medical examination, X-rays,
visa fees, notary fees, etc. As in every other phase of the
Program these services are available to escapees in each
of the asylum countries and in this instance are also avail-
able in certain of the countries of second asylum.

FTER the escapee has received his visa for resettle-
ment the Escapee Program provides its final assistance
in the form of free ocean or other transportation from the
escapee's place of residence in western Europe to his new
home whether it be in the United States, Canada, Australia,

Escapee family (left) receive assistance from a voluntary
agency accredited to Escapee Programm at Wels, Austria.

or in Latin America, This service enables many escapees to
emigrate who otherwise would be unable to do so.

From the date of its inception in April 1952 until
March 15, 1953 the Program has provided transportation
for 2,660 persons. This was done through a contract be-
tween the Escapee Program and the Intergovernmental
Committee for European Migration under which the Migra-
tion Committee undertakes to arrange transportation for
escapees designated by the Escapee Program. -++ END

Secretary of State Dulles and MSA Director Stassen Visit Bonn

Chancellor Adenauer (center) welcomes Secretary Dulles
(left) and Mr. Stassen on their visit to the federal capital.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

US Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and Harold E.
Stassen, director of the Mutual Security Agency, visited
Bonn Feb. 5-6 during a fact-finding tour of western Euro-
pean capitals. While in Bonn, they conferred with Prof.
Theodor Heuss, president of the German Federal Republic;
Dr. Konrad Adenauer, federal chancellor; Erich Ollenhauer,
chairman of the Social Democratic Party, and met with US
officials. On departing, Secretary Dulles made the following
statement:

“Mr. Stassen and I are grateful for the warm hospitality
shown us here in Germany and for the intimate exchange
of views which took place concerning matters of vital
concern to us all.”

“T regret that time did not permit a visit to Berlin on this
occasion. I recall well my visit there on the Airlift in 1948.
We in the United States are, now as then, vitally interested
in the welfare and security of this city and we share the
determination of the Berliners to maintain their liberties.”

“In bidding you goodbye I am happy to know that we
shall be able to renew our discussions with your chancellor
in Washington this spring." + END

MARCH 1953

--- Page 12 ---
One Year on the Border

By John D. Healy

US Cultural Officer, Kassel

AEASSAGE from Faust was used by a:German school
teacher to express his estimate of the US Information
Center in the northern Hessian community of Eschwege. Inan
essay on “My Opinion of the America House”, the teacher
quoted: “He, who brings variety to his audience, presents
something to everyone, and upon leaving, all are satisfied.”

Located only a few miles from the border of the Soviet
Zone, the America House, during its first year, has been
practically adopted by the people of Eschwege as their own
— so much so that the local newspaper in commenting on
US economy moves said the citizens “plead that their Ame-
rica House will not be touched.”

Even the Kassel Post, often outspokenly critical of Amer-
ica policies, found words of praise in saying: “They (the
America House) have in every way promoted civic think-
ing, the idea of European integration and, as far as possible,
friendship between Germans and Americans.”

Gratis at the first anniversary festivities Feb. 6 of
the US Information Center in Eschwege, Byron B. Sny-
der, US Consul in Frankfurt, hailed the America House as
contributing to ‘the strong but imperceptible bridges which
are being built by men and women of good will on both
sides of the Atlantic.”

Also comparing the America House to a bridge County
Administrator Gerhard Pforr of Eschwege went on to say
that the America House had broken down many old
barriers, healed many old wounds, and had become the
accepted center of Eschwege cultural activity, indeed living
up to the slogan on its printed program "The House of
Understanding."

Attending Eschwege ceremony were (left to right): John D.
Healy, author of this article; Byron B. Snyder, consul,
American Consulate General, Frankfurt, and Karl Bartho-
Jomaeus, chairman of the county agricultural committee.

MARCH 1953

In paying tribute to the first birthday of the Eschwege
America House “analogy” seemed to be the key word, for
in an impressive article which appeared in the Kassel Post
of Feb. 5, the America House was referred to as a “well
developed child." The article entitled “One Year America
House", which was written in editorial form and which
appeared in a column known as “The Town-Crier from the
Werra Valley,” went on to say:

“On the birthday of this well developed child a word to
its parents, America and its taxpayers, is in order: If it
should, for urgent reasons, ever become necessary to cut
the budget for such cultural activities, then many hundreds,
if not thousands, of Eschwege citizens plead that their
America House will not be touched. Their argument is that
in a city of 25,000 souls, and particularly in one located on
the East Zone border, the message of the West finds tremen-
dous reception and favorable reaction and that it is a politi-
cal pillar against the flood of Communism. It is for this
reason that they wish, this now one-year-old child many
more birthday celebrations here.”

HESE different forms of approbation, the speeches, the
newspaper articles, letters of congratulation from all of
the leading city officials as well as the presence in the anni-
versary audience of officials, organizational leaders and
citizens representing all three of the counties of Eschwege,
Melsungen and Witzenhausen, in which the America House
conducts extension activities, were without doubt dynamic
proof of a year of success.
The century-old city of Eschwege is located in northern
Hesse, south-east of Kassel in the scenic Werra River
valley. From the library windows of the America House the

sent

Also participating in the first anniversary ceremony Feb. 6
were Joseph Starkey (left), director of the America House
in Eschwege, and Paul Lutzeier, deputy public affairs
officer of the American Consulate General in Frankfurt.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
visitor can see through the “Iron Curtain”
Russian-occupied zone of Germany.

Sometime during the closing months of the year 1951 a
decision was made to establish an America House in this
strategically located border city. Prior to this decision a
one-room, one-man operated reading room had been in
existence in Eschwege since 1949, as a branch of the Kassel
America House.

On Feb. 6, 1952, a newly assembled staff without house
or equipment met in a borrowed room with representatives
of the press and announced their plans to establish a US
Information Center in Eschwege.

and into the

HE FIRST move toward the establishment was made in

an effort to abrogate suspicious doubts and mistrusts
on the part of leading citizens as to the purpose of the
planned center. Leading citizens chosen for their influence
in certain walks of life, such as county administration, city
administration, religion, the schools, adult education, youth
work, private citizen committees, cultural work and Euro-
pean Union, were approached individually and invited to
become members of the Eschwege America House advisory
board. Each of them accepted the invitation, thus paving
the way for close cooperation with extremely valuable
advice.

The next step was to set up monthly coordination meet-
ings with representatives from the three counties which
the America House would serve. Those meetings were for
a two-fold major purpose: (1) to dispel the feeling on the
part of local program groups that America House activities
would compete with their own; and (2) to plan and carry
through jointly sponsored programs.

These two steps contributed to the eventual success of
the America House. The advisory group created an atmos-
phere which in a few weeks formed into popular citizen
support of the unanimous town-council decision to allow
the state court to use a smaller city-owned building, thus
leaving the way open for the Justice Ministry to lease the
large state court building to the America House.

The court building, however, needed considerable reno-
vating and had to be shared in the beginning with the US
resident office. In spite of the space shortage an improvised
program was started throughout all three counties with
particular emphasis on a field program in the small com-
munities along the East Zone border.

HE public-affairs program surveys made by the former

US resident officers in each county were of consider-
able assistance, for they pointed out that contacts com-
prised the most useful tool of a successful America House
operation. The film committees which were established in
the two field counties by the resident officers were major
outlets for the America House film library. Efforts, which
were in time successful, were undertaken immediately to
form a film committee in the City of Eschwege.

Discussion evening's were based on the theory that the
local citizens wanted more personal contact with Ameri-
cans. A program was. begun to interest members of the
local US military community in America House activities.
The goals, long-range plans and weekly programs of the
new America House were publicized throughout the Amer-
ican community. In a very short time a weekly discussion
evening in the English language and a bi-weekly discussion
in which German-speaking Americans took part became
regular features of the America House program.

The America House began to take a leading part in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

betterment of German-American relations. Members of the
staff spoke several times at troop information and educa-
tion hours on “Our New Role in Germany”. In cooperation
with the resident officer and later the civil affairs officer
a German-American Committee was formed. Counterpart
activities of this committee were supported actively by the
America House, such as German-American children’s paint-
ing classes, discussions, film evenings and music hours.
Teachers of the American school contributed a great
amount of effort to these undertakings.

HE advisory group continued through the months to

pay off large dividends. The participation of the mayor
and the county administrator on the advisory group pro-
moted acceptance by the general public of America House
programs. Cooperation reached an exceptional highpoint
during the week of June 9, 1952. To coincide with the
opening to the public of a completely renovated and equip-
ed America House a week of European Unity was present-
ed. Such a program, it was- decided, had an especial, timely
value because of the current pace of world events, its
significance in the entire European picture and the urgent
need for it in terms of US objectives on the border. It was
planned in close cooperation with the local European Union
group, the city and county officials, the adult education
center and the two local high schools.

Every event on the week-long program attracted capacity
audiences, causing the Werra Rundschau of June 13 to say:
“The new auditorium of the America House could have
been double the size.’ At the climax meeting on June 14,
representatives of ten European nations composed a panel
to discuss political problems of European unity before an
overflow crowd of 600 in the town hall.

Press coverage has been amazing, for in one year the
America House has appeared favorably ‘in daily articles in
papers representing a total daily circulation of more than
120,000 over 1,000 times.

MPRESSIVE figures illustrating the success of the Amer-

ica House program between March 1952 and January
1953 were recently cited by Dr. Rudolf Littner, the program
director: 88 lectures were attended by 5,851 persons; 48
concerts were attended by 10,582 persons; 32 record con-
certs were attended by 3,495 persons; six theater perform-
ances were attended by 2,569 persons; five puppet shows
were attended by 2,282 persons, 1,034 film hours were
attended by 104,819 persons; 73 English conversations were
attended by 829 persons; 112 English classes for children
were attended by 1,916 children; 39 English discussions
were attended by 1,235 persons; 11 open-house discussions
in the German language were attended by 828 persons; 47
German-American activities (adult and children) were
attended by 912 persons, and four quiz evenings were pre-
sented before 1,400 guests.

In the libtary weekly attendance rose from an average
of 450 to 1,920 persons and average weekly book circula-
tion from 240 to 960 during the year.

The success of the Eschwege America House is partly
due to the fact that the peoples of that important border
area are aware of realities and they are seeking in these
troubled times a strengthening of bonds with the world
to the West. This interest is not only confined to those
citizens of Eschwege and Witzenhausen, for on more than
one occasion gtiests have slipped across the border to
attend a program and publications, distributed by the
America House, have made the journey back. + END

10 MARCH 1953

--- Page 14 ---
Teachers with Ideas

By Dr. Frank H. Jonas

Exchange-of-Persons Branch, Division of Cultural Affairs, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

HE US EXCHANGEES program in Germany is often

throught of only as sending German public officials,
civic leaders and students to the United States to observe
and study American methods in government, community
activities and education.

But fully as important in the US State Department's
exchange-of-persons program is the process in reverse -—
the significance of the “exchanges” meaning in the pro-
gram. This applies to the sending of American consultants,
specialists and teachers to Germany to work with German
groups and broaden their appreciation of the democratic
way of life.

Typical of this ‘exchanges in reverse’ was the recent
innovation by William H. Cleveland, a chubby, smiling
school teacher from Bucks County in Pennsylvania, in
escorting ten German students of his current-events class
in Duesseldorf to visit the German parliament in Bonn and
observe their own government in action.

Mr. Cleveland is one of 19 American school teachers,
chiefly from senior high schools, who have exchanged
places with 19 selected German teachers in comparable
positions. This teacher exchange program—~an experiment
from the standpoint of State Department administrators
~-—is unique in many ways: permitting the direct exchange
of positions as well as of persons and giving the opport-
unity to the exchanges actually to work in the country’s
economy.

= an educational standpoint, it brings American
course materials, class plans and teaching methods
tight into the German schools and adapts them to the tra-
ditional German curriculum. American approaches to
educational problems in turn develop in the process, adapt-
ing much from the German emphasis on the acquisition of
knowledge in the classroom and modifying the American
emphasis on the development of the integrated individual
personality.

Mr. Cleveland, during the visit to the HICOG headquarters
in Mehlem, near Bonn, identifies US officials to his class.

MARCH 1953

The visit of the German students to the German parlia-
ment to see the highest German legislative body in action
is a type of applied laboratory work in the social sciences
which is not widely followed in Germany. The model
legislative performance in the state legislative chamber put
on annually by US college students, in which they enact a
mock law under the scrutiny of veteran legislators, or the
taking over of local offices by US high school students, or
the attending of district political party meetings and county
and state conventions by students under the voting age.
has not been the rule in Germany. But applied social studies
are on the increase, due to the opportunities American and
German specialists have had through the Department of
State to visit, and now under this type of program, to work,
in each other's country.

On their way to the Bundeshaus, where the federal par-
liament meets in Bonn, the students visited HICOG offices.
They were shown some of the working offices, the con-
ference rooms, the high commissioner's office, where they
were met by the staff secretary, and the cafeteria, where
they had lunch with HICOG officials. This was the first
time they had eaten in this type of restaurant, being im-
pressed by the system, the low prices and the variety of
good food.

ETWEEN Mehlem and Bonn they stopped to inspect
Muffendorf, one of the two large, modern housing
projects for German employees of HICOG. Not luxurious,
these apartments are modern and substantial, mitigating
not only the enormous housing shortage in Germany but
also the onus of requisitioning by occupation authorities.

Travel costs are prohibitive for German student groups
to undertake many such trips. In addition, the crowded
study schedule, with little or no time for extra-curricula
activities, is a major discouraging factor.

German students study approximately 15 subjects con-
currently during each school year. For example, these
students when interviewed stated that they studied Eng-
lish, French, Latin, German, methematics, physics, history,
chemistry, biology, religion, history of art, music and sport
at the same time, in addition to one of the two workshops
in civics and English conducted by Mr. Cleveland.

In school six days a week, they attend six classes of 40
minutes each daily in one of the two shifts which fully
utilize the physical properties, leaving little time and space
for extra-curricula activities or additional course study. It
was the course, in the form of a workshop, in civics or
current events which brought the boys to Bonn.

| ee school teachers in the United States who com-

plain about having no free hour during the day would
be interested in Mr. Cleveland's busy schedule, which is
typical of other American teachers in Germany. He teaches
25 hours and meets 150 students each week. His workshop
in current events and in English, which he conducts on
Saturdays, are elective courses for the students.

In addition to this classwork he has many other duties.
For example, he served on the examining committee of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
school, the Jakobi Gymnasium in Duesseldorf, comparable
to the last two years of high school and the first two years
of college in the United States. This committee decides who
is to be graduated and, therefore, who may go on for univer-
sity work. Mr. Cleveland sat two whole attended days in
this committee, and then on the third day attended a four-
hour faculty meeting.

Important is to learn how these American teachers are
reaching into German schools with the materials and tech-
niques they brought from home. Equally important is the
method which is used to demonstrate their teaching me-
thods. In the current events workshop the students com-
pare the functional operations of the German and American
governments, employing the familiar devise of tracing the
steps taken by a bill before it becomes law. Another pro-
ject is a study of the Contractual Agreement and European
integration. Each Saturday a student makes a report.
Vigorous discussion and sharp criticism follow to consume
the two-hour period. Only informal lecture techniques
supplement the student reports and discussions. The trip to
the German Federal parliament and HICOG capped a year's
academic activity.

The American teachers are allowed full freedom to
develop their own course plans, selecting important current
topics from week to week. They are under no pressure from

the state ministry of culture and education. In Mr. Cleve-
land's case, the director of the school allows him to follow
his own inclinations as a teacher.

Sect books and materials from the United States as
Sweet Land of Liberty by Frances L. Bacon, American
Government by Mary P. Keohane and Joseph D. McGold-
rick, The American Observer, published by the Civic Edu-
cation Service in Washington, D.C., and Everyman's United
Nations, issued by the Department of Public Information of
the United Nations, are used in the current events workshop.
Newpapers are studied in the English class. This should
surprise no one, for the intelligent reading of the front
page of a newspaper has frequently been included in a
language examination in European schools, particularly for
foreign students. Newspapers in American Life, a German
book by Mueller-Hesse, and the Making of a Newspaper, a
New York Times publication, are used as guides. The New
York Times, the Christian Science Monitor and occasional
issues of German newspapers and news magazines are
analyzed and compared as examples of each country’s
press.

Although not totally ignored, social studies in German
schools have been substantially neglected and unevenly

Continued on page 15

Following are the names of the American and German
program, with their home schools and locations. These

AMERICAN TEACHERS

the American teachers taking the positions held by the Germans in Germany, the Germans the Americans’ positions

teachers who exchanged positions in the teacher exchange
appear directly opposite each other as they exchanged,

Bamberger, Reinhardt F.:

Wilmington High
School, Wilmington,
Del.

Central High School,

Superior, Wisc.
Bomberger, Harry R.:....

Palmerton Area

Joint High School,

Palmerton, Pa.
Brauer, John A.:

- Evanston Township

High School,

Evanston, Ill.
Cleveland, William H.:..

George School,

Bucks County, Pa.

Fauley, Gladys M.:......
High School,
White Plains, New
York.

High School,
Nutley, New Jersey.

Grover Cleveland,
High School, Ridge-
wood Queens, N. Y.

Classical High School,
Providence, Rhode
Island.

Teaneck High School,
Teaneck, N. J.

GERMAN TEACHERS

Helms, Erwin:
Felix-Klein-Oberschule,
Goettingen, Lower
Saxony.

Lepke, Heinz:
Gymnasium Petrinum,
Dorsten, Westfalia.

Kessler, Alexander:
Oberrealschule with
Gymnasium,
Noerdlingen, Bavaria.

Eden, Heinrich:

Hansa Schule,
Hamburg-Bergedorf,
Schleswig-Holstein.

Drabert, Emil:

Jacobi Gymnasium,
Duesseldorf,
Northrhine-Westfalia.

Weigel, Fortunat:
Humanistisches
Gymnasium, Munich-
Pasing, Bavaria.

Sturmhoefel, Maria:

3. OW Falkschule,
Berlin W-35.

Neuhaus, Ilse:
Paul-Natorp-Schule,
Berlin-Friedenau.

Tuschke, Luise:
Neusprachliches Maed-
chengymnasium,
Opladen, Westfalia.

Hefele, Marianne:
Oberschule fuer Jungen,

Nuerdingen,
Wuerttemberg-Baden.

AMERICAN TEACHERS

Lillie, Raymond F.:......
Hayward High School,
Hayward, Cal.

Albany High School,
Albany, N. Y.

Pfeiffer, Meta E.:
Walla Walla High |
School,

‘Walla Walla, Wash.

Ringwald, Siegfried C.:..
Jefferson, Junior High,
Long Beach, Cal.

Riordan, Enda H.:
Stamford High School,
Stamford, Conn.

Roe, Virginia: ..........
Hohnes High School,
Covington, Ky.

Edison High School,
Minneapolis,
Minnesota.

Sedro Woolley Public
Schools,
Sedro Woolley, Wash.

Warren High School,
Warren, Pa.

Wolf,

GERMAN TEACHERS

Goetz, Josef:
Gymnasium Rastatt,
Rastatt, Baden.

Hoffmann, Ursula:

Neusprachliches Maed-
chengymnasium,
Gladbeck, Westfalia.

Hammeran, Ruth:

Realgymnasium fuer
Maedchen,
Eschwege, Hesse.

Gehse, Heinrich:

Staatliche Oberschule,
Timmendorfer Strand,
Schleswig-Holstein.

Ehlers, Marianne:

Helene Lange Schule,
Hannover,
Lower-Saxony.

Bringmann, Rudolf:

Mathematisch-Natur-
wissenschaftliches
Gymnasium,

Hamm, Westfalia.

Asmus, Ruth:

Neusprachliches
Gymnasium mit
Frauenschule,
Bad Oeynhausen,
Westfalia.

Reimer, Hans:

Ulrich von Hutten
Schule,

Schluechtern, Hesse.
Josef:
Gymnasium und Ober-
realschule,

Guenzburg, Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

MARCH 1953.

--- Page 16 ---
Clemency Procedure

By Richard C. Hagan

Chairman, HICOG Clemency Board‘

HE RAW-BONED prisoner hunched in his chair,

stretched his arms and spread his monstrous hands.
The fingers curled and wrapped around each other,
tightened and whitened as the questions came from the
three-member panel of the HICOG Clemency Board, and
then relaxed as the tension eased.

These fingers were the same ones which were responsible
for putting him behind prison bars for life on conviction in
the strangling death during a long-planned robbery in a
hotel room for the victim's wallet. Here sat Johann Schmidt,
former SS-member of Hitler's own Leibstandarte, resident
of the Hitler bunker until the last week, denier of responsi-
bility for the crime for which he was “doing time,” and
pleader of his own case for clemency.

“Why,” asked a member of the Clemency panel, “did
you kill this man?” After a moment's pause, the fingers
tightening, came the answer, “But I didn’t do it, I'm not
responsible. My co-defendant is responsible.”

“Why is he responsible?”

“He planned it all," was the reply. .

“What did you do?”

“I was there.”

“Why were you there?”

“Because my friend wanted someone who was big like
me,” he replied, while the fingers spread.

HE PRISONER could not refrain from looking down at

his huge hands which indicated his guilt beyond reason-
able doubt. His record showed that Johann Schmidt was
an eater of razor blades, When asked about this fact, he
offered to prove his ability if the panel would supply him
with a blade. Not that the panel was about to make
available to him such an instrument. Did’ he think that
Hitler was dead? Well, he had talked the matter over with
his comrades and they had concluded that Hitler did not
live. But the others — well, that was another question.

The panel members completed their interrogation of the
petitioner, excused him, discussed the prisoner with the
prison psychiatrist, and examined the Record of trial, the
opinions of the trial court and the trial prosecutor, the
social case work analysis, the recommendations of the
warden, and of the German state parole board. Then the
board unanimously reached its decision that the sentence
of life imprisonment was proper despite all factors which
the prisoner had urged upon the panel.

Johann Schmidt was but one case out of nearly three
thousand heard and decided annually during the past three
years by the HICOG Clemency Board, the executive cle-
mency agency established by HICOG to process and decide
on clemency petitions filed by persons convicted in US
occupation courts. Every week panels of this Board, com-
posed of three members each, meet with prisoners and for-

* Mr, Hagan also is chief, Prisons Division, Office of Political Affairs
HICOG, and president, HICOG Extradition Board.

MARCH 1953

mer prisoners to consider their claims for clemency or
release on parole.

These persons, with their counsel, seek to ameliorate the
sentences by obtaining a reduction, a pardon or a release
on parole. After they have been heard once for both pardon
and parole, they cannot be heard until a year has elapsed
from the last hearing.

‘HIS BOARD and its members are an integral part of

the administration of justice under HICOG. Every fully
developed system for the administration of justice has a
structure for the administration of clemency by the ex-
ecutive head of government. It is viewed that sometimes
human factors and events occur subsequent to prosecution
and conviction warranting relief from or modification in
sentences imposed by the courts.

The Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany
recognizes this principle. Soon after he had become high
commissioner, John J. McCloy, in order to regularize exe-
cutive elemency and to enable a convicted person to know
what his rights were, created the HICOG Clemency Board,
provided for its organization and defined its authority. *

The Board began operations in January 1950. Since that
date, the Board has heard, considered and disposed of
more than eight thousand cases. The Board has never had
more than 29 United States members, most of whom have
had other responsibilities in HICOG and in the now-dis-
continued US state commissioners’ offices. Today it is
operating with 14 members. Personnel of the Prisons Di-
visions, Office of Political Affairs, man most of the panels
with help of lawyers from the Legal Affairs Division of the
Office of General Counsel.

HREE PRINCIPAL categories of relief for petitioners

can be found in the files of the HICOG Clemency Board.
They are: (1)commutation of sentence; (2) pardon or ab-
solution from conviction, and (3) parole. These are the
desires, although, as one surveys the collected materials
of the Board, one can see innumerable permutations and
combinations of these three basic forms of relief which
petitioners have sought.

Petitioners’ needs have framed the standardized-forma)
petitions which the Board has devised and which are
completely filled out and submitted by the convicted per-
son who is petitioning. Although legal counsel may be
employed, the Board accepts petitions, upon which it will
act, from the convicted person. Briefs and other materials
prepared by counsel are construed as a part of each petition
and considered with the petition.

Of these forms of clemency, commutation of sentence is
the legal curtailment of the punishment imposed by the

? For similar operations during the previous OMGUS period, see
“Clemency Board" in Information Bulletin No. 69, Nov. 25, 1946. °

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
courts of law. A panel of three members has plenary dele-
gated power to decide each such petition. Its decision is
final and there are no appeals from the decision. A panel
may decide that a sentence should be cut down as being
excessive in light of sentencing procedure utilized by the
present day courts.

For example, many severe sentences were imposed on
robber bands of displaced persons in the early days after
the war when they, finding themselves at liberty from
slave-labor or concentration camps, sought indiscriminate
revenge upon the German population. The Military Govern-
ment courts found it necessary to impose extremely heavy
sentences not only because of the nature of the crimes
committed but in order to bring law and order back into the
occupied area as required of the occupying power by the
law of belligerent occupation. When some of these sen-
tences were passed they were deterrent-serving. But when
contrasted with the sentences imposed in the US courts
of today for similar offenses, the need for equalization by
commutation becomes evident.

OMMUTATION of sentence may be absolute, that is,

without conditions. Suppose that a panel finds before
it a prisoner serving a ten-year sentence imposed in 1947
for illegal possession of a shotgun. If the panel should
conclude that the sentence served is sufficient, it may cut
that sentence to time served and order the prisoner's im-
mediate release. There are no conditions on the legal effects
of such an order.

On the other hand, a panel may desire to cut a sentence
in order that the prisoner, on the grounds of compassionate
reasons, may emigrate. To insure that he fulfills the pur-
pose of his commutation and that he is deterred from
returning to Germany, the panel may append conditions
to the commutation which will render it conditional. Sen-
tences have been conditionally commuted for the purpose
of repatriation of United Nations nationals or for the pur-
pose of resettlement of displaced persons who could not
return to their native lands because of a change in political
complexion which would endanger their lives.

In one instance, a panel ordered the release of a prisoner
shortly before the legal expiration of his sentence, in order
that he might prepare to emigrate from Germany. The panel
appended a series of conditions to the release. On the last
day of the sentence period the man was discovered inside
West German territory unprepared to emigrate. He was
arrested, returned to jail and his commutation revoked for
violation of the conditions. Two months later the panel
again conditionally commuted his sentence for the purpose
of emigration. He was escorted to a plane and seen off on
a non-stop flight to his final destination in another country.

NDER THE new court system, as reorganized in 1948 *,

commutation of sentence is a rare form of elementary.
The trial courts, often sentencing under German law, are
now better qualified professionally to set sentences. Further-
more, the Court of Appeals through its own powers over
sentences and through its controls over the lower courts,
has been able to effect more uniform sentencing throughout
the United States area of responsibility. In no case will the
HICOG Clemency Board act on a petition for commutation
of sentence while an appeal is pending before the Court
of Appeals.

* See ‘‘Civilianization of Military Government Courts” in Information
Bulletin, No. 143, Sept. 7, 1948.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

The HICOG Clemency Board panels have heard 2,320
petitions for commutation of sentence of which they have
granted 22 percent.

Sometimes convicted persons believe that they are inno-
cent and that the courts have erred in their convictions.
Or, on the other hand, compassionate reasons exist which
warrant a setting aside of those convictions. They may
have served their sentences and are now trying to read-
just their lives in the German environment in the presence
of an occupation court conviction which stands on the
German penal register and appears in every police certi-
ficate required for employment.

ONSIDER the case~of a young German woman who

appeared recently before a panel of the Board. In a
low halting voice, she told of the harrowing experience of
nine months spent in attempting to obtain a clearance to
marry her fiance, an American sergeant. The clearance had
been refused because she had been convicted of theft of
German army food one day before the end of the war in
May 1945 by an American summary Military Government
court.

Under questioning of the panel members, the following
story unfolded. In her hometown, she (then seventeen years
of age) and her girl friend has heard that since the Ameri-
cans had taken the town they were giving away German
army food which had been stored in a bunker-type depot.
They went to the bunker, asked the soldier at the entrance
about food, he admitted them, they went to the cellar. for
food, and there another American soldier frightened them
so that they never got near the supplies. They fled back
to the entrance where they were stopped by another group
of soldiers and their namens and addresses taken. Next day,
the two of them, along with some thirty or forty other
townspeople were summoned to the city hall, which had
been taken over by the newly arrived American troops.
There she was questioned along with the others. Said the
lieutenant, ‘Go on home. You're all right. But don't let it
happen again.” She knew nothing more of this event until
almost seven years later when the specter of those times
arose in the form of a conviction for theft.

Her soldier boy-friend came in after the panel had ex-
cused her. He exhibited typical energy and determination
in the fight. He had written his senator who had interested
himself in the case. After the hearing was over, the panel
considered the case record which showed no pleading, no
legal counsel, no service of charge sheet, no evidence taken
and further legal deficiencies the panel unanimously de-
cided to recommend that an executive pardon be granted
the petitioner. Under an opinion rendered by the Immi-
gration and Naturalization Service of the United States,
the pardon issued to this girl had the effect of wiping out
the conviction involving a crime of moral turpitude, a real
barrier to the issuance of a visa to her. The High Commis-.
sioner signed the pardon.

UT NOT all pardons are absolute in form. A panel

may decide to recommend a pardon to which conditions
precedent to its legal efficacy must exist or upon the
occurrence of which the pardon would become null and
void. Such pardons are rare.

There is the case file where a pardon was granted:a
native American who, having involved himself in a series:
of criminal escapades, and renounced his citizenship, found
he could not return to the home country, because he. had

MARCH 1953

--- Page 18 ---
been convicted of crimes involving moral turpitude. It was
decided that upon certain conditions a pardon should be
effective — the force and effect of the conditions being to
leave the responsibility with the convicted man. Today that
same former American is resettled in his hometown and,
according to latest reports, seems to have effected a read-
justment to a normal American life although he has yet
to regain his citizenship by naturalization.

In 1950, panels heard 593 applications for pardon. This
jumped in 1951, the final year of the Federal DP Act, to
1,265 applications. There must be adequate grounds or a
pardon will not be issued. Pardons are few and far between,
but they exist as a form of relief where valid grounds exist.

He THIRD form of relief which the HICOG Clemency

Board administers is parole. Parole is the conditional
release of a prisoner from confinement and his restoration
to a normal civil environment under supervision, where it
is hoped he may serve the balance of his sentence and
effect his rehabilitation, Parole is a peculiarly American
concept and has been developed to a higher degree in the
United States than in any other country. It has been intro-
duced into Germany in the United States area where the
experience of the Board reveals it to be successful in almost
90 percent of the paroles made.

This is an excellent result when it is realized that parole
release involves a plan in which the prisoner must have a
job prior to release, a place to live, a sponsor and a super-
visor. Some of these things are difficult for a normal, un-
convicted individual to obtain in postwar Germany, much
less for a convicted prisoner, especially a displaced person,
behind the walls. Yet, through its sister German organi-
zations, the German State Parole Boards, the HICOG Cle-
mency Board panels have placed 962 prisoners on parole
and the Board is presently supervising some 600 parolees.
But without the German organizations, parole would be
impossible. .

The German State Parole Boards, required of German
authorities and manned by German officials, were estab-
lished under American Military Government and con-
tinued under HICOG. Under the directive these boards
receive petitions for parole from prisoners sentenced by
US occupation courts. These petitions are prepared in the
prison under the supervision of the prison parole officer,
an ofifcial specially trained by US authorities, who has
oriented the prisoner on parole from the day he entered
the institution.

Aro plan is the kernel of the petition. A job offer
in writing is included, the type of work, the amount
to be paid, the place of residence, the name of a German
person or agency which acts as the sponsor during the
parole period and to whom the parolee periodically reports
(as the panel of the HICOG Clemency Board will decide),
the report of the work supervisor in the institution, the
psychiatric report, the parole officer's recommendation and
the warden’s report and recommendation with reference to
parole. Coordination with German Labor Offices in making
the plan is important. This is handled by the German offi-
cials of the German State Parole Boards.

When the prisoner has served one-third of his sentence
if the sentence be a year or more, or fifteen years if he is
serving a life sentence, he may file his first petition for
parole. His petition goes from the prison parole officer to
the warden and then to the State Parole Boards where it
is scheduled for hearing by the German board. At this
hearing, the background and the future of the prison-

MARCH 1953

petitioner are appraised and the German Parole Board
decides on its: recommendation to the HICOG Clemency
Board panel which considers and decides the petition.

Then the prisoner is processed by the German State
Parole Board: under the panel's order. The parolee must
report to his work and living place directly upon release
and he is required to report as the panel directs. He is
visited by his sponsor regularly and by his parole super-
visor from time to time. He can consult with these German
authorities and he channels any special requests to the -
HICOG Clemency Board through his sponsor or parole.
supervisor to the German State Parole Board.

Byres have been made in the last two years to
improve the supervision by the German parole super-
visors. The chairman of the HICOG, Clemency Board has
ordered on-the-spot investigations, limited surveys, answers
to specific questions in limited number of cases, special
instructions and reorientations of institution parole officers
and German State Parole Boards and seminars, ‘all aimed at
increasing supervision, checking the supervision, increasing
knowledge of the officials’ tasks by them, extending a
helping hand throughout any phase of their duties to the
members of the German State Parole Boards. Recently, the
chairman of the HICOG Clemency Board established the
position of US supervisor of paroles in Germany, whose
responsibility is the coordinating and increasing of knowl-
edge and supervision on the part of-the German officials.

German officials, who are acquainted with the American
parole device; have become enthusiastic supporters of it.
However, whether the German government will adopt this
parole system or its own form remains a question for the
future. + END

Continued from page 12

presented in curricula. Generally, wherever they have
gained ‘credence, the history teacher has taught current
events as somewhat of a sideline. The teaching of civics
and citizenship, even as adjuncts of related course work
or as extra-curricula activities, has not-been widely pre-
valent.

OCIOLOGY is now only emerging as a dignified and

accepted discipline in the German university; political
science and public administration have a long way to go as
distinct fields of research and courses of instruction. Social
studies in the grade and high schools, the counterpart of
higher social science disciplines, are also emerging as
integral parts of the intense academic life of the German
students, particularly in secondary and vocational schools.
American teachers have carried their concepts of education
right into German schools; German teachers have been.
given exactly the same opportunity in the United States.

Adaption, and not imitation, is the process through which
the best in each country's educational thought and method
is demonstrated and applied in terms of traditional tenden-.
cies and prevailing practices. .

This direct exchange of 38 Germans and Americans. re-
presents only a small segment of the State Department's
worldwide exchange of persons program, which alone has
sent 8,274 Germans to the United States and 1,266 US and
European specialists to Germany. Though small in numbers,
the teacher exchange program looms large against the back-
ground of objectives, the mutually disseminating of demo-
cratic values through the mutual exchange of ideas and
experience. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN’

--- Page 19 ---
Information Bulletin

Magazine of the US Mission in Germany

Frankfurt/M, Germany
March 1953

Dear Reader:

The Information Bulletin ends with this issue. It has served its purpose of disseminating authorita-
tive information concerning the policies, regulations, operations, activities and accomplishments of
the United States occupation missions functioning in Germany since World War II.

The first issue was distributed July 28, 1945, just two weeks after the organization of the overall
command (USFET) for the US Zone of control. Pointing out that it was published by direction of
General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Theater Commander and Military Governor, a note in the first
issue went on to say:

“It has a single purpose: to assist Military Government personnel in their daily work and to
facilitate the exchange of ideas and experiences among them. It is designed to disseminate the in-
formation useful to detachments in the field and to the staffs at headquarters, and to furnish practical
guidance on Military Government questions and problems... (It) will give you the current expla-
nation and information on new policies or on changes in old ones; it will attempt to explain why they
were adopted and how they can best be put into effect..."

The Information Bulletin kept pace with the progress of the US missions in Germany, ever mindful
that its purpose was to inform the reader as completely as possible on the current situation, back-
ground and contributing factors of the subject of each article. To accomplish this, specialists and well-
informed persons were invited to contribute articles on subjects in their particular fields. Hundreds
of bylines testify to this cooperation. Staff writers, most of whom were experienced American new-
spaper and magazine writers, covered events and subjects generally too diverse for one specialist.

The Information Bulletin was originally a weekly publication. It became a biweekly in January
1948 and a monthly magazine in October 1949 when the civilian responsibility in Germany was trans-
ferred from the Department of the Army to the Department of State. In all there were 220 issues,
including eight special editions, published by the Information Bulletin. These contained nearly 2,000
feature articles, pictorial stories and texts of speeches.

During 1951 it reached its greatest popularity with a circulation of more than 27,000, being distri-
buted to HICOG employees, the US Armed Forces in Germany, and also to public officials, univer-
sities, libraries and interested persons in the United States, Germany and other western European
countries. 5

As the US mission in Germany phases out its occupation obligations in preparation for assuming
embassy status, the purpose for the Information Bulletin draws to a close. However, the Information
Bulletin remains a historical record, along with the official reports and documents, of the activities
and accomplishments of the American responsibilities in postwar Germany. On the following pages
are a listing of the content of each issue and an index for reference to these articles.

H. Warner Waid
Editor 1946-1953

INFORMATION BULLETIN 16 MARCH 1953,

--- Page 20 ---
CONTENT

Information Bulletin, July 1945 — March 1953

Listed on the following pages, in chronological order of publication, are
the titles of articles, documents, texts of addresses, pictorial features and

other stories of informational importance. The numbering of the issues
was dicontinued under HICOG, but the numbers have been inserted in this listing to simplify the INDEX which follows.
Eight special issues published by the Information Bulletin are given roman numerals.

No. 1 — July 28, 1945 — 26 pages
A Note on a New Publication, Page 3. Explana-
tion of the purpose of the Information Bulletin.
Legislative and Judicial Policy, page 4. Out-
line of MG program.

1.G. Farben Plants in US Zone Seized, page 7.
Explanation and text of STAFF order.

The Drive to End Nazism, page 10. Outline of
policy.

USFET Proclamation No. 1, page 13. Text of
authority for Military Government in Germany.
Licenses for Newspapers and Publishers,
page 4, Outline for application policy.
Denazification and the Anti-Nazis, page 16.
Summary of German-Opinion Survey.

No. 2 — Aug. 4, 1945 — 30 pages
German Food Problems and Policies, page 3.
Explanation.

New Criminal Justice for Germany, page 6.
Explanation.

Military Government und the DISCC's, page 8.
Explanation of organized of local Information-
Control Units.

Denazification is Your Job, page 11. Instruction
to US Personnel.

The Combined Displaced Persons Executive,
page 13. Explanation of first organized for
handling DP’s.

Recovery and Protection of Art Treasures,
page 15. Explanation.

Timidity Noticed Among Anti-Nazis, page 17.
Summary of German-Opinion Survey.

No. 3 — Aug. 11, 1945 — 32 pages
Message from General Eisenhower, page 3.
Outline of policy. for German people.
Financial Policy in Occupied Germany, page 5.
Explanation.

The Potsdam Conference Statement, page 9.
Text of Potsdam Protocol.

Soviets Reform German Education, page 21.
MG report on Soviet School policy in Berlin.
German Comments on Re-education, page 23.
Summary of German-opinion survey.

As the Press Viewed Potsdam, page 27.
Collection of American, British and Russian
press comments.

No. 4 — Aug. 18, 1945 — 32 pages
The Abrogation of Nazi Law, page 3. Summary
of MG legislation.

The Future Nazi Propaganda Line, page 6.
Caution against possible German attitudes and
efforts.

New Reporting Procedure Outlined, page 8.
Program for channeling information from field
to headquarters.

First Military Government Conference Schedul-
ed, page 10. Announcement.

Medical School at Heidelberg Re-opens, page 11.
Review.

PW Schools Train German Police, page 12.
Review.

Pre-Hitler Political Parties,
sketches of main parties,
Socialist, prior to 1933.

page 14. Brief
except National

No. 5 — Aug. 25, 1945 — 35 pages
The Task Ahead, page 3. Article bei Lt. Gen.
Lucius D. Clay, deputy military governor,
outlining objectives and policies of MG's long
range program.

What the Germans Will Eat This
page 4. Analysis of food situation.
You Are Making History — Today, page 7.
Program for setting up Historical Section to
cover MG activities.

The Role of UNRRA in the DP Operation,
page 9. Review.

Winter,

MARCH 1953

Public Safety in the US Zone, page 12. Outline
of police, fire and denazification programs.
MG Regulations to Appear in One Volume,
Page 16. Announcement of codifying of MG
directives, orders and instructions.
Population Figures — US Zone, page 18. Table
giving comparative totals by countries, states
and military districts for 1939 and 1945.
Denunciation and Cooperation, page 25. Analy-
sis of German denunciations and advice for
evaluation.

No. 6 — Sept. 1, 1945 — 31 pages
Restoring German Administrative Machinery,
page 3. Explanation of internal affairs mission.
Politics and Military Government, page 7.
Explanation of directive for political activity
on county level.

Civil Communications in Germany, page 8.
Plan for resuming services.

Germany's Agricultural Future, page 10. Des-
cription of agricultural production plan.
German Economic Control Established, page 12.
Outline of plan for setting up regional and
state control offices.
Military _ Government
page 15. Review.
ECAD Ends 19 Months Service, page 16. Review
of work of predessor to Military Government
detachments in German communities.

Youth Program, page 23. First mention of
US soldiers’ activities which developed into
the Armed Forces Assistance to German Youth
Activities.

Successful Occupation Key to Final Victory,
page 25. Summary of American press comment.

Conference Closes,

No. 7 — Sept. 8, 1945 — 31 pages
German Foreign Trade — 1945, page 4. Feature
describing problem of restituting industrial and
commercial property taken by Germany from
occupied countries and caution in re-establish-
ing trade outside Germany.

Presenting Military Government to the Press,
Page 6. Instruction for liberal public-relations
policy.

Religion in Germany Today, page 11. Review
of first postwar Evangelical Church conference.
Anti-Nazi and Food Control, page 17. Analysis
of Communist-Socialist demand for food com-
mittees in all communities.

Military Government Spurs Denazification,
page 24. Summary of American press
comments.

No. 8 — Sept. 15, 1945 — 27 pages

Opening Remarks, page 5. Text of statement
by General Dwight D. Eisenhower, military

governor, at first Military Government con-
ference.
Removal of Nazis and Militarists, page 7.

Article by Major Keith Wilson, Public Safety
Division, US Group Control Council.

US Organization for Military Government in
Germany, page 10. Description of responsibili-
ties, set-up and top personnel.

The Battle for Health, page 13. Outline of
public health problem and plan to solve it.
Danger of Nazi Solidarity in Small Towns,
Page 17. Analysis of German attitudes.

Special I — Sept. 15, 1945 — 135 pages

Military Conference Edition, containing
texts of speeches and discussions at
conference Aug. 27—29, 1945, USFET

Headquarters, Frankfurt, including:
Opening Remarks by General Eisenhower
(note No. 8).

17

Introduction by Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, deputy
military governor.

Importance of Denazification by Col. Hayden
Smith, deputy assistant chief of staff, G-5,
USFET.

Removal of Nazis and Militarists by Major
Keith Wilson, Public Safety Division, US
Group Control Council.

Use of Anti-Nazi Groups for Assistance in
Denazification by Col. William W. Dawson,
commanding officer, Baden-Wuerttemberg De-
tachment.

Dissolution of Nazi and Military Organizations
by Col. P. S. Lauben, chief, German Affairs
Group, G-1 Division, USFET.

Control of Property of Nazis and Militarists by
Col. Charles S. Reid, chief property control
officer, USGCC.

Control of Expenditures of Nazis and Militarists
by Col. Bernhard Bernstein, director, Finance
Division, USGCC.

* Prosecution of War Criminals by Charles Fahy,

director, Legal Division, USGCC.
Introductory Remarks (second session) by May.
Gen. Oliver P. Echols, assistant deputy military
governor.

Germany and Democracy by Ambassador
Robert P. Murphy, political adviser to the
military governor.

Information Services and Democratic Attitudes
by Brig. Gen. R. A. McClure, director of
information control, USGCC.

Re-Education in Germany by Major G. H.
Geyer, G-5 Division, USFET.

Religious Activity by Major M. M. Knappen,
chief, Religious Affairs Branch, USGCC.
Decentralization of Authority by Brig. Gen.
Luther S. Smith, director, Civil Administration
Division, USGCC. :
The Administration of Justice by Charles Fahy,
director, Legal Division, USGCC.

Political Activities by Donald R. Heath, direc-
tor of political affairs, USGCC.

Trade Union Activities by Brig. Gen. F. J.
McSherry, director, Manpower _ Division,
USGCC.

Introductory Statement .(third-session) by Brig.
Gen. C. L. Adcock, assistant chief of staff,
G-5 Division, USFET.

Food and Agriculture by Lt. Col. Ben H.
Thibodeaux, Food and Agriculture Section,
G-5, USFET.

Relation of German Coal Industry to US Zone
by Col. Louis C. McCabe, chief, Solid Fuels
Section, G-4, USFET.

Housing by Capt. M. B. Satterfield, Manpower
Division, USGCC.

German Civil Transportation System by Col.
John B. Hughes, Transport Division, USGCC.
Postal Services, Telephone and Telegraph by
Lt. Col, Joseph Berhalter, Communications
Division, USGCC.

Postal Service by P. J. Schardt, chief, Postal
Branch, Communications Division, USGCC.
Utilities by Lt. Col. A..C. Hall, executive
officer, Public Utilities Section, Industry
Branch, G-5, USFET.

Financial Institutions and Currency by Major
H, S. Gans, USFET.

Distribution, Rationing and Inflation Control
by Capt. Henry S. Reuss, G-5, USFET.

Taxes, Public Finance: Social Insurance by
Col. Bernard Bernstein, chief, Financial
Branch, G-5, USFET, and director, Finance

Division, USGCC.
Public Health by Col. W. L. Wilson, chief of
public health, Internal Affairs Branch, G-5,
USFET.

Public Welfare by Major Alden E. Bevier,
chief, Public Welfare Section, G-5, USFET.
Introductory Remarks (fourth session) by Laird
Bell, assistant deputy military governor for
trade and finance.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Policies for Control of Industrial War Potential
by Emilie Despres, adviser on German econo-
mic affairs, Department of State.
Organization for Production Control Program
by Col. J. Boyd.

Dispersion of German Economic Power. by
Herman Phleger, associate director, Legal
Division, USGCC.

Control of Research by Dr. H. P. Robertson,

chief, Scientific and Technological Branch,
FIAT (US).
Import and Export Control by Frederick

‘Winant, director, Trade and Commerce Divi-
sion, USGCC.

The Basis of the Reparations Program by Col.
L. ;W. Jefferson, director, Reparations, Demoli-
tion and Removal Division, USGCC.
Removal of Facilities and Equipment for Re-
parations by E. S. Hoglund, deputy chief of
industry, G-4, USFET.

Disposition of German Foreign Exchange Assets
by Orvis A. Schmidt, Financial Branch, G-5
Division, USFET.

Restitution of Works of Art by Major L. Bancel
La Farge, chief, Monuments, Fine Arts and
Archives Section, G-5, USFET.

Ocean Shipping by Lt. Cmdr. P. A. Borel,
Navel Division, USGCC.
Denazification of Judicial System,
of panel discussion.

Displaced Persons, summary of panel discus-
sion.

Internal Affairs — Communications, summary
of panel discussion.

Availability of Labor, Labor Unions and De-
nazification, summary of panel discussion.
Denazification of Financial Institutions, sum-
mary of panel discussion.

Denazification of Schools and Religous Institu-
tions, summary of panel discussion.

Public, Safety, summary of panel discussion.
Denazification in Indusiry, summary of panel
discussion. 2

Denazification of Information Services, sum-
mary of panel discussion.

Pubiic Health, summary of panel discussion.
Statement on Importance of Reporting by Lt.
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, deputy military governor
(including his first’ mention of the famous
"Goldfish Bowl"’ policy).

Military Governor's Monthly Report by Col.
W. Whipple, special assistant to deputy mili-
tary. governor and acting reports control of-
ficer, USGCC.

The. New System of Reporting by Col. L. E.
Doster, chief, Reports and Information Branch,
G-5, USFET (and first editor of the Information
Bulletin).

Military Government Regulations by Col. John
M. Raymond, member Editing Committee, Mili-
tary Government Regulations.

Displaced Persons by Brig. Gen. S. R. Mickel-
sen, director, Prisoners of War and Displaced
Persons Division, USGCC.

Closing Remarks by Brig. Gen. C. L. Adcock,
assistant chief of staff, G-5, USFET.

No. 9 — Sept. 22, 1945 — 27 pages

Geieral Eiseniiower Reaffirms Total Denazifi-
cation, page 5. Statement.

Policies on Replacement of Military Govern-
ment Personnel, page 7. Procedure for Amer-
ican civilians’ replacing military personnel in
occupation duties.

Foreign Currency Conversion, page 12. Review
of Allied controls on foreign exchange.

New Books for German Schools, page 14. Re-
view of textbook program.

The “Plight of the Innocent Young Nazi,
page 18. Translation, of Reader's letter to
Frankfurt Rundschau.

No. 10 — Sept. 29, 1945 — 31 pages

Message from General Adcock, page 5. State-
ment by Brig. Gen. Clarence L. Adcock, assi
tant chief of staff, G-5, USFET, on coordinat-
ing MG policy and activities in field.
Law No. 8: Prohibition of Employment of Nazis,
page 6. Text.
Military Government in Germany Changes in
Organization, page 7, Announcement to esta-
blish OMGUS Oct. 1 to replace USGCC in
Berlin with assumption of certain MG duties
from G-5, USFET.

summary

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Displaced Persons — Past and Future, page 8.
Review.

Indoctrination of Prisoners of War, page 12.
Text of indoctrination speech in PW camps.
Germans Today: Doleful and Angry, page 15.
Article by Drew Middleton, reprinted from
New York Sunday Times Magazine.

The German Looks at Trade Unions, page 20.
Summary of German-opinion survey.

German Re-Education Seen as Vital Task,
page 25, Summary of American press comments.

No. 11 — Oct. 6, 1945 — 34 pages

Stateless Jews and the Harrison Report, page 5.
Summary.
Public Health:
page 8. Review.
Plight of Industry, page 11. Review of indu-
strial potential of US Zone.

The Pot and the Kettle, page 24. Translation
of editorial in Frankfurt Rundschau on record
of Nazism in Bavaria.

What to do with the Nazis?, page 25. Review
of German opinion of approaching elections.

A German _ Responsibility,

No. 12 — Oct. 13, 1945 — 36 pages

Denazification of German Business, page 5.
Analysis of operation of Law No. 8.

Many will Survive, But..., page 11. Analysis
of nutrition status of Germans.

Churches Play Politics (German opinion), page
18. Summary of German opinion on religious
activities. .

No. 13 — Oct. 20, 1945 — 35 pages

Control Council Law No. 1, page 4. Text of
law to repeal Nazi laws.

Control Council Law No. 2, page 5. Text of
law to provide for termination and liquidation
of Nazi organizations.

German Administration of Justice, page 7.
Review of courts under Nazis and after war.
Consolidation of Military Government, page 12.
Details for transfer of local governmental
administration to Germans.

The Allied Control Council, page 14. Descrip-
tion of its organization and operation.
Procedures for Restitution, page 16.
ment of method for filing claims.
Revival of Communications, page 18. Review
of postwar work.

A Frankiurt Conservative Looks at the Local
Scene, page 23. Analysis of German - opinion
on denazification of industry.

No. 44 — Oct. 27, 1945 — 35 pages

The Council of Ministers President, page 5.
Description of German zonal administrative
body inaugurated in Stuttgart.

The Conference on Economic Agencies, page 8.
Review of first zonal meeting of German eco-
nomic control agencies.

War Comes Home for the Winter, page 11.
Review by Major H. N. Hooper, trade and
industry officer, Detachment E6 (Frankfurt) of
housing and living conditions in Frankfurt
after war.

Guest in the House, page 16. Recommendations
for emergency repairs to war-damaged houses
in preparation for winter.

Tuberculosis Strikes Again, page 19. Review of
sharp rise in incidence of the disease.

Toward a New Political Party?, page 22. An-
alysis of German attitudes on new political
groups.

Eisenhower Declaration Praised, page 26. Sum-
mary of American press comments on strong
denazification policy.

No. 15 — Nov. 3, 1945 — 35 pages

Control Council Legislation, page 5. Descrip-
tion of five types of legislation.

Back from the Salt Mines, page 5. Description
of finding of German hiding places for art
treasures and procedure for processing in col-
lecting points.

Towards Bringing Materials to Industry, page
12. Instructions for intrazonal trade to speed
flow of raw and semi-finished goods.
Reactivation of Political Life in Wiesbaden,
page 14, Account of activities of local political
groups to inaugurate organizations,

State-

18

A Free Press and the Future, page 19. Analy-
sis of German views on importance of first
conference of publishers and editors.

The Kassel Detachment and the DP's, page 22.
Description by Capt. John E. Emerson, Detach-
ment E-4 (Kassel), of local plan for handling
displaced persons’ problem.

No. 16 — Nov. 10, 1945 — 36 pages

An Editorial from “The Bavarian”, page 4.
Reprint from weekly paper of the Third MG
Regiment, replying to critics of MG operations.
Coal, page 5. Extensive review and analysis
of current coal mining industry in Germany.
Inland Waterways and Railroads Serving the
US Zone of Germany, page 14. Description
with map.

Occupation Troops and Youth Activities,
page 17. Instructions of Western Military
District for soldiers’ assistance in youth activi-
ties.

The German Press, page 22. Extract of MG
Detachment report on attitude of German popu-
lation toward recently licensed newspaper.
The Necessity of Law No. 8, page 23. Transla-
tion of letter in Wiesbaden Kurier criticizing
non-Nazis for lack of housecleaning.

Housing of Displaced Persons, page 25. Expla-
nation of Kassel MG Detachment’s method to
get Germans to handle responsibility.
Eisenhower Report in News Spotlight, page 27.
Summary of American press comments on
military governor's third monthly report.

No. 17 — Nov. 17, 1945 — 32 pages

The Ministers President's Secretariat, page 5.
Details of establishment of body to handle
functional responsibilities of US Zone’s Coun-
cil of States.

The Battle of the Winter, page 7. Suroey of
communicable disease situation in US Zone.
Letters to The Times, page 12. Excerpts from
letters written by Germans to their news-
papers and radio stations.

No. 18 — Nov. 24, 1945 — 32 pages

Military Government Reorganizes, page 5.
Clarification of terms in Oct. 5 directive, with
comments from three detachments.
Denazification — Unfinished Business, page 16.
Tables illustrating progress of investigations.
Guide to Clarify Nationality of DP’s, page 20.
Freedom of the Press, page 23. Translation
from Frankfurt Rundschau of editorial criticiz-
ing mayor.

The Rumor Mill, page 24. Review of German
anti-occupation stories on apparent systematic
basis.

No. 19 — Dec. 1, 1945 — 44 pages

The January Elections, page 4. Explanation of
directive providing for first community elec-
tions in US Zone.

Political Activity at the Land Level, page 7.
Explanation of USFET directive permitting
wider state political activity.

Towards Strong Civil Administration, page 9.
Summary of two USFET directives on MG-
German administrative relations.

Analysis of Returns of Political Activity Report,
page 13. Explanation of preparation of report.
Democracy vs. the ‘ Police State", page 20.
Analysis of German concepts and MG safe-
guards.

The Jubilaeumsbau at Marburg, page 24. Re-
view of restoration and safeguarding of recov-
ered art at Marburg Collecting Point.
Transportation Responsibility, page 26. Instruc-
tion for transfer to Germans.

German Political Leaders on Denazification,
page 30. Comprehensive summary of German
reaction to denazification, reprinted from
Infomation. Control Intelligence Summary.
War Trials Seen as Historic Landmark, page 36.
Selection of American press comments on Inter~
national Military Tribune trial in Nuremberg.

No. 20 — Dec. 8, 1945 — 40 pages

Schools for Democracy by Robert S. Berlin,
Historical Section, Reports and Information
Branch, G-5, USFET, Part I — Elementary .and
Secondary Schools, page 4. Comprehensive
review of German educational system since
1619 to postwar situation.

MARGH 1953

--- Page 22 ---
What is Militarism?, page 15. Information for
guidance of MGO'’s.

The Survival of the Mercenary Tradition, page
20. Historical Feature by Franz Marmorek.
The German and Foreign News, page 23. Re-
view by OMG Greater Hesse of German reac-
tions to international affairs conditioned on
question ‘Will it ameliorate condition in
Germany?”.

Last Warning to All Concerned, page 24. Ex-
tract from proclamation of Gunzburg mayor
against Nazi rumormongers.

The City Council Meets, page 25. Extract from
Hof MG Detachment report on clash between
factions of city administrations.

Price Report, page 28. Selection of American
press comments.

No. 21 — Dec. 15, 1945 — 48 pages

The Price Report, page 5. Text of report by —

Byron Price to the President after survey of
American-German relations.

Schools for Democracy, Part II — The Univer-
sities, page 10.

Youth Organizations and Politics, page 23.
Historical Review of youth movement in Ger-
many and current situation.

Germans Look Ahead, page 30. Account from
OMG Baden-Wuerttemberg on German views
of future.

No. 22 — Dec. 22, 1945 — 28 pages

ICD Joins Military Government, page 4.
Explanation of transfer of information-control
activities from USFET special staff to
OMGUSZ.

Inflation, page 11. Review of situation after
World War I and current possibilities.

OMG Quits the Armies, page 16. Explanation
of USFET general order separating state MG
offices from military command.

No. 23 — Jan. 5, 1946 — 25 pages

Are Banks a Threat to our Peace?, page 4.
Analysis by MG financial experts of possible
action.

Civilian Travel Regulations, page 7. Instructions
for issuing passes.

First Step toward Controlling Narcotics Traffic,
page 10. Details of MG directive.

Germany's Destroyed Cities, page 12. Example
from Frankfurt Rundschau for effort to re-
educate public.

Occupation Hampered by Redeployment, page
15, Selection of American press comments.

No. 24 — Jan. 12, 1946 — 32 pages

The US Economic Policy in Germany, page 4.
Two articles (1) Statement by Secretary of
State James F. Byrnes and (2) instruction by
Department of State to Military Government.
Germany's Livestock being Vetted by MG,
page 6. Review of activities of US Army's
veterinary officers with MG.

Nazi Influence on German Civil Service, page
9. Review of Nazi control over German civil
service.

Arms Issue for German Police, page 15. USFET
directive citing conditions for arming police.
Opinion of the Clergy, page 17. Quotations
from letter of clergyman about impenitence
and lack of conscience toward Nazi crimes.
Press Hails Moscow Agreement, page 19. Selec-
tion of American and British press comments.

No. 25 — Jan. 19, 1946 — 27 pages

Will the Germans Welcome Democracy?, page
5. Preview of community elections.
Transportation is Our Business, page 11.
Explanation of transfer of supervision of Ger-
man. railroads and inland waterways from
military control to Military Government.
Reparations as Seen by the Paris Conference,
page 16. Summary of State Department release
concerning Paris Conference on Reparations.
Political Parties, page 20. Translation from
Wiesbaden Kurier of Social Democratic views
on. forthcoming community elections
Occupation Failures, page 23. Selection of
American press comments.

MARCH 1953

No. 26 — Jan. 26, 1946 — 28 pages

The Theater Returns to the Bavarian Scene,
page 5. Review and Analysis by Capt. Gerard
‘W. Van Loon, Munich MG Detachment, of
dearth of suitable drama for German Theaters.
Licensing a Free, Democratic German Press,
page 11. Review of difficulty in finding accept-
able publishers, editors and business executives.
Democracy Catches On, page 14. Review of
results of first German community elections.
Congressional Action Needed, page 20. Selection
of American press comments on need for
supplying suitable personnel to fill overseas
commitments,

No. 27 — Feb. 2, 1946 — 28 pages

Denazification Policy Unified, page 5. Provisions
of Allied Control Council directive.
‘Proposed Denazification Program for the US
Zone, page 4, Plan to adjust action in US
Zone to terms of ECA directive.

Reichspost - A Monopoly, page 9. Review of
extensive German communications network.
The Leaders of the Unfinished Task, page 14.
Directory of top officials of the four occupying
powers on hte Allied Control Council, Co-
ordinating Committee and staff.

Election Results Show Democratic Process
Begins, page 17. Review of community election
results.

No. 28 — Feb. 9, 1946 — 28 pages
Is Germany Short of Labor?, page 4. Review
by Brig. Gen. Frank J. McSherry, director of
Manpower Division, OMGUS, of labor shortage
and German plans to alleviate it .
German Justice Revamped, page 8. Explanation
of revised criminal codes adopted in states of
US Zone.
Religious Study is Optional, page 12. Terms
of USFET orders applying to public schools.
Where was the Ultra-Right?, page 15. Analysis
of community elections.

No. 29 — Feb. 16, 1946 — 24 pages

Can a Potentially Dangerous Focus of Resis-
tance be Eliminated by Price Control?, page 4.
Review of blac market and efforts to curb it.
Farben Securities Transfer Prohibited, page 11.
Terms of MG Law No. 55.
Automatic Arrest, page 12.
USFET directive.

Forgive Us Our Trespasses, page 14. Article
by Karl Barth, Swiss theologian, on question
of German war guilt, reprinted from Zurich
Die Weltwoche.

No. 30 — Feb. 23, 1946 — 24 pages
No Bread and Circuses for Germany, page 5.
Article by Benno Frank, deputy director, Film,
Theater and Music Control Branch, Information
Control Division, OMGUS, Reviewing current
drama and other entertainment available to
Germans (Title based on old Roman formula
for disguising distress.)

New Taxes for Germany, page 9. Summary of
new higher taxes enacted by Allied Control
Council.

Mills of Death, page 14. Translation of editorial
from Munich Sueddeutsche Zeitung criticizing
Bavarians for not seeing the film on the Nazi
concentration camps.

No. 31 — March 2, 1946 — 24 pages
The Nazis Had a League for Germans Abroad,
page 5. Description of foreign ramifications of
Nazis. :

Growth of the Trade Unions, page 7. Report
from OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Information Please, page 12. Establishment by
Bavarian newsmen of American-type press
conference to get answers from state officials
on current questions.

List given in

No. 32 — March 9, 1946 — 27 pages
Learn by Doing, page 6. Letter by deputy
military governor for teaching Germans
democracy.

Denazification by Germans, page 7. Explanation
of extent and implication ‘of ,,Law for Liber-
ation from National Socialism and Militarism’’
as Germans take over denazification program.

19

This Tells the Story, page 11. Introducing Ber-
lin’s Six Month Report.

Control Council Enactment Reforms Marriage
Law, page 12. Details of ACA law for equality
of women, elimination of Nazi racial provisions
and improvement in judicial administration.
‘What is Democracy?, page 17. Analysis of Ger-
man questioning.

The Refugee Speaks, page 18. Text of letter
from refugee lawyer to Upper Bavaria MG
Detachment on status of millions of Germans
expelled from the East.

No. 33 — March 16, 1946 — 31 pages
Darmstadt: Test-Lab of German Opinion, page
5. Summary of survey by Office of War
Information of German thinking.

The Indictment Against Nazism, page 9. Digest
of opening statement by Justice Robert H.
Jackson, US prosecutor, at International
Military Tribunal trial in Nuremberg.

US Military Government Consolidates, page 15.
Consolidation of all MG operations and acti-
vities under OMGUS in Berlin.

Letters to the Editor, page 20. Translation of
letter in Munich Sueddeutsche Zeitung from
Bavarian citizen criticizing re-establishment of
Monarchist Party.

No. 34 — March 23, 1946 — 35 pages

J'Accuse (French for ,,I Accuse’), page ‘5.
Excerpts from introductory statement of Fran-
cois De Menthon, French prosecutor, at Inter-
national Military Tribunal trial in Nuremberg.
A German News Service is Born, page 10.
Review of establishment of the US-sponsored
German news service DANA.
The Dependents are Coming to the ETO,
page 13. Summary of directives, instructions
and information concerning movement of
American families to Germany.
We and the Occupation, page 16. Text of radio
adress by Frankfurt's mayor on following MG
instructions and answering criticism of German
electorate.

No. 35 — April 1, 1946 — 28 pages
Free Air for Germany, page 7. Review of radio
operations.

Is Law No. 52 Effective?, page 11. Explanation
of terms of MG law to block property of persons
under investigation for Nazi or other undemo-
cratic records.

Housing - A German Problem, page 14. Two
parts (1) Details of ACA Law No. 18 for
equitable distributtion of available housing
and (2) MG emergency shelter program,
German Press Favors New Denazification Law,
page 17. Selection of German press comments.
The Elections in Retrospect, A German Opinion
Poll, page 18. Summary of ICD public-opinion
survey.

No. 36 — April 8, 1946 — 31 pages
Germany Enters World Trade, page 5. Plan for
export products to help balance cost of imports.
Public Welfare, A Weimar Service, Nazi Tool,
page 9. Review of pre-occupation situation.
US Constabulary Prepares for Occupation Duty,
page 11. Details on establishment of US
Army's mobile striking force.

Toward a Unified Reich?, page 14. Summary
of opinions of German leaders on political
possibilities.

No. 37 — April 15, 1946 — 24 pages
Are There ,,Good" Nazis?, page 5. Comprehen-
sive review of membership requirements of
Nazi Party, difficulty in joining party and
staying in (one of most requested and quoted
articles in Infomation Bulletin. subsequently
reprinted five times).

The Anti-Nazi PV Returns, page 9. Review of
training German prisoners of war in democratic
ideas.

The Black Market, page’ 11. Summary of’ In-
formation Control's public opinion survey
among Germans.

No. 38 — April 22, 1946 — 24 pages

Another Chance for German Youth, page 5.
Resume of program for supervised youth
activities in US Zone, especially with US Army
support. :

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

--- Page 23 ---
Give US This Day Our Daily Bread ..., page
10, Survey of agricultural, food and rationing
conditions.

Germans Begin Their Own Denazification,
page 12. Summary of start of German action
under new law.

How Could It Happen?, page 15. Comments
from German press on roundup of members of
secret Nazi youth organization.

Roosevelt. The Man Who Liberated Humanity,
page 16, Report of memorial service conducted
by German Council of States.

No. 39 — April 29, 1946 — 24 pages
X-raying the German Mind, page 5. Article by
Dr. Frederide W. Williams, chief, Surveys Unit,
Intelligence Branch, Office of the Director of
Information Control, OMGUS, describing
scientific public-opinion survey methods con-
ducted along lines functioning in six major
nations of the world.

A Competitive Press for Germany, page 10.

Address by Brig. Gen. Robert McClure,
director of information control, OMGUS at
licensing of Frankfurter Neue Presse.
Potsdam Reparations Begin, page 13. Report on
shipment of Bremen shipyard to Soviet Russia.
Restitution to Nazi Victims, page 15. Summary
of public opinion survey on diverence of views
and knowledge of German people concerning
restitution.

No. 40 — May 6, 1946 — 23 pages
Labor Organization in the US Zone, page 5.
Summary of current conditions and © MG

directives.
Denazifying the Reichspost, page 7. Review of
German communications and postal system

under Nazi control and postwar changes.
Youth - The Big Problem in Germany, page 12.
Summary of public opinion survey of attitudes
among German youth.

No. 41 — May 13, 1946 — 27 pages
Germany Learns of Her War Dead, page 5.
Review of work of MG agency in notifying
next-of-kin of casualties listed in captured
German army files.

Swords into Plowshares, page 9. Summary of
ACA plan to eliminate war potential.
Germans Will Restitute Nazi Victims, page 12.
Summary of OMGUS directive turning restitu-
tion operations over to German states.
Germany's Foreign Trade Extended, page 13.
Report on OMGUS agreements with other
countries and UNRRA for exchange of food.
Work-to-Eat Order Meets German Approval,
page 16. Summary of Information Control
opinion survey concerning Control Council
order,

The Specter of Inflation, page 18. Summary of
Information Control survey of popular con-
fidence in price stability.

No. 42 — May 20, 1946 — 23 pages

Germany Takes Another Step Toward the
Democratic Process, page 5. Review of first
community and rural county elections in US
Zone.

US Zone Centralizes Reichspost, page 9. Report
on formation of German agency to take over
operation of communications and postal system.
For Reparations: 185 Industrial Plants form
US Zone, page 10. Summary of OMGUS report
on plants, mostly of war potential, declared
ready for dismantling and shipping.

Barter Exchanges Aid German Consumer, page
11. Report on operation of barter syndicate
in Stuttgart.
The Tasks of
page 13,
Klingelhoefer in British-licensed Telegraf in
Berlin.

No. 43 — May 27, 1946 — 31 pages
Reopening German Universities, page 5.
Article by Dr. E. Y, Hartshorne, supervisor of
higher education program in US Zone, review-
ing organization of “citizens’ committees’ for
reopening institutions.

MG Agencies Winding Up _Denazification
Affairs, page 10, Summary of OMGUS directives
for turnover of operations to German tribunals.

Social Democratic Politics,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Translation of article by Gustav

Facts & Figures on the German Economy, page
11, Description of ten-volume statistical hand-
book published by OMGUS' Ministerial Col-
lecting Center near Kassel.

Bavarian Food. Hoarding, page 13. Digest of
MG directives to aid Bavarian Food Ministry
in collecting food from farms.

Liquidation of German Military and Nazi
Monuments Ordered, page 14. Summary of ACA
directive.

1946 Leipzig Fair in Review, pages 16-17. Pic-
torial display.

Licensed Press Views Deindustrialization Law,
page 19. Selection of German editorials.
Hunger Will Not Wait, page 21. Selection of
US press editorials on world famine danger.

No. 44 — June 3, 1946 — 31 pages

Laenderrat Tackles Food Distribution, page 5.
Review of changes by German Council of
States in food rationing.

Special Consideration for ,,Special' Germans,
page 7. MG directive to avoid requisitioning
difficulties to anti-Nazis and persons helping
occupation.

Long Distance Telephone Service Returned to
Reichspost, page 8.

German Organizations Under the Third Reich,
page 9. Description of ordinarily non-political
groups.

Smokers, Drinkers Hit by New Taxes, page 12.
Summary of three ACA laws.

MG Inaugurates Zone-Wide Suggestion Cam-
paign, pagé 16.

Community Leaders Querified on Democracy
and Politics, page 21. Summary of Information
Control public opinion survey.

No. 45 — June 10, 1946 — 26 pages

German Cities Go to the Poll, page 5. Analysis
of first city elections in US Zone.

Greater Responsibility for Germans in Planning
their Economic Future, page 9. Review of
decisions of Economic Division conference in
Berlin.

Voluntary Relief Supplies, page 11. Description
of effort and aims of CRALOG.

US Reparations Policy, page 13. Implication
of decision to discontinue dismantling of
additional industrial plants.

Stadtkreis Elections in the Berlin Press, page 17,
Selections from Berlin’ editorials on first city-
level elections.

No. 46 — June 17, 1946 — 32 pages

Symbol of Quadripartite Cooperation, page 5.
Article by Thomas A. Falco, chief reports
officer, Reports and Statistics Branch, Econo-
mics Division, OMGUS, or organization and
activities of Allied Control Authority.

New German Citizens, page 8. Article on
resettlement of expellees from eastern European
countries in US Zone.

Social Insurance in Germany, page 11. Review
of history, organization and functions of
sixty-year-old system.

Two New Decrees Towards Further Denazifi-
cation, page 13. Analysis of legislative propo-
sals of German Council of States.

Laenderrat and OMGUS Draft New Export-
Import-Program, page 14. Summary of plan of
German Council of States and MG Authorities.

No. 47 — June 24, 1946 — 32 pages

Democratic Self Government in Progress, page 5.
Review of postwar development of German
legislative organization under OMGUS.

New Rationing System, page 9. Details of Ger-
man plan to increase food rations, particularly
in large cities.

The Results of the Ration Cut, page 10. Sum-
mary of nutrition survey in three zones of
western Germany.

German Women Shed their Shackles, page 12.
Article by Sophie Dornbush, Staff Writer
Information Bulletin, comparing women in
public office with status in Weimar Republic
and Nazi times.

Property Control Reverts to Land Governments,
page 15. Details on transfer to German operation.
No Barter in International Trade, page 17.
Text of OMGUS policy directive.

20 .

No. 48 — July 1, 1946 — 35 pages
Operation ,,Lost and Found", page 5. Article
by Thomas A. Falco, chief reports officer,
Reports and Statistics Branch, Economics Divi-
sion, OMGUS, describing restiution of German-
looted art treasurse of rightful owners.
Works Councils in Germany, page 8. Review
of employer-employee relationship in industrial
plants and restoration of practice by US Zone
Military Government.

Breaking Down Interzonal Barriers, page 13.
Summary of conference between German
economic officials of US and Soviet Zones for
sales exchange of certain commondities.

The Specter of Narcotics, page 15. Review of
postwar development of control operations in
US Zone.

Intelligence Report, page 17. Text of report
prepared by officer of an MG field detachment

on conditions at grassroot level.

No. 49 — July 8, 1946 — 45 pages
Anniversary Message from the Commanding
General, OMGUS, page 5. Text to letter to MG
personnel from Lt. Lucius D. Clay.

Struggle for Production, page 8. Article des-
cribing postwar industrial production in US
Zone.

Now It's Up to the Germans, page 11. Article
describing final transfer of denazification
responsibilities to Germans.

Food for the US Zone, page 14. Summary of
US policy in providing food for Germans in
US Zone.

Our Mission in Germany, page 17. Article by
Lt. Col. R. P. Rosengren, deputy chief, Civil
Service Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, advising US personnel on respon-
sibilities in occupation.

One Year of Military Government, pages 20-29.
Pictorial Review.

No. 50 — July 15, 1946 — 32 pages
US Zone Elects Constitutional Assemblies,
page 5. Article by Dr. Roger H. Wells, chief,
Election Affairs Branch, Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, reviewing first elections on
state-wide level in US Zone.

Ceramics, page 9. Article by John M. Warde,
chief, Ceramics and Glass Section, Economics
Division, OMGUS, on production of porcelain,
pottery, tile and earthenware in US Zone.
Germany's Inland Waterways, page 12. Article
by Major P. A. Hutchinson, assistant to chief,
Water Transport Branch, Transportation Branch,
OMGus.

American Food for Kassel's Children, page 14.
Review of first school mass-feeding program
in the US Zone.

Feeding 17,000,000 Germans, pages 16-17. Pic-
torial feature.

Amnesty for Youth, page 24. Summary of MG
directive.

No. 51 — July 22, 1946 — 32 pages
Battle Against Disease, page 4. Article by Lt.
Col. Edward J. Dehne, chief, Preventive Medi-
cine Section, Public Health and Welfare
Branch, Internal Affairs Division, OMGUS,
describing successful postwar prevention of
serious epidemics in US Zone.

Germany's Forest, page 7. Article by Major
Leslie S. Bean, chief, Forestry Section, Econo-
mics Division, OMGUS, describing German
conservation program.

Imported from the US, page 10. Article by
Margaret Rechmeyer, Reports and Statistics
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, describing
assistance given by United States to German
economy in providing food, materials and
vehicles.

US Consulates in Germany, page 13. Article
giving locations and functions of six consulates
opened since war.

Seven steps Towards German Democracy, page
15. List by General Joseph T. McNarney, US
military governor.

Allied Control Council, pages 16-17. Pictorial .
feature. :

No. 52 — July 29, 1946 — 28 pages

Adult Education, page 4. Article by Herbert
Maccoby, education specialist, Education and
Religious Affairs Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 24 ---
Towards a Free German Press, page 6. Con-
densation of orientation lecture by Lt. Col.
W. H. Kinard, deputy director of Information
Control, OMGUS.

Interzonal Economic Unity Proposal Présented
by US, page 9. Details of original plan which
subsequently developed into the economic
fusion of the British and US Zones.

Glit Parcels from the US, page 11. Description
of CARE program.

Zeiss Ikon, pages 14-15. Pictorial feature on
factories in Berlin,

No. 53 — Aug. 5, 1946 — 28 pages
Maximizing German Agriculture, page 5. Details
of OMGUS-German plan to increase farm lands
and produce more food.

Coal: A Four-Zone Problem, page 8. Article
by Carl W. Cloe, coal research analyst, Coal
and Non-Metallic Metals Section, Industry
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, describing
ACA program for increasing production.
Potsdam, page 11. Article by Edward O. Stro-
bel, External Assets Branch, Finance Division,
OMGUS, describing Soviet headquarters city.
Democratizing of Information Services Aim of
Proposed Laws, page 13. Explanation of pur-
pose of new German laws with MG review.
Constabulary Raid, pages 14-15. Pictorial
feature.

No. 54 — Aug. 12, 1946 — 28 pages
American Policy for Occupation, page 4. Extract
of orientation lecture by Col. William Whipple,
secretary general, OMGUS, defining defini
policy and its major objectives as demilitari-
zation, denazification, economic limitation and
re-education.

Industry in the US Zone, page 7. Article by
Thomas Falco, chief reports officer, Reports
and Statistics Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS, describing postwar revival.

Central German Agencies, page 12. Part 1 of
series of eight articles taken from OMGUS
document presenting US proposal for economic
unification in accordance document presenting
US proposal for economic unification in
accordance with Potsdam Agreement.

A German Verdict, pages 14-15. Pictorial
feature on German denavification trial.
Survey Reveals German Reaction to Information
Control Polls, page 19. Result showing favor-
able German reaction.

No. 55 — Aug. 19, 1946 — 28 pages
Police Schools, page 4. Article by James L.
McCraw, chief, Police and Fire Section, Public
Safety Branch, Internal Affairs and Communi-
cations Division, OMGUS, describing denazi-
fication effort and training new force to
act effectively and respectfully.

The Navy's Job in Occupation, page 7. Article
describing purpose and operation.

Program of Re-education, page 9. Text of
OMGUS statement outlining long-range policy.
US Information. Centers, page 11. Article by
Dr. William Cecil Headvick, chief, US Infor-
mation Control, OMGUS, describing origin
and development of program in Germany.
Relationship with Other Organizations, page
13, Part 2 of German Central Agencies series.
Milk Route, pages 14-15, Pictorial feature on
old-style distribution of milk in Bremen.

No. 56 — Aug. 26, 1946 — 32 pages
Highways of the US Zone, page 4. Article by
Robert H. Ethridge, Roads Branch, Transport-
ation Division, OMGUS.

‘Wehrmacht Lands, page 7. Article by Major
David L. Wickens, Food and Aariculture
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, explaining
plan to convert Ge'man Army maneuvers
areas into farming lands.

Employee Relations, page 9. Article by Paul
Lutzeier, chief, Employee Relations Section,
Personnel Division, OMGUS, explaining func-
tions and benefits concerning US occupation
personnel.

Foreign Trade, page 11. Part of 3 Central Ger-
man Agencies series.

Years after Victory, page 14. Reprint of ,,Letter
from America’ distributed by Ottice of Poli-
tical Affairs, OMGUS, on first anniversary
of V-J Day.

CARE Program, pages 16-17. Pictorial feature.

MARCH 1953

No. 57 — Sept. 2, 1946 — 32 pages

Prisons in the US Zone, page 4. Article by
Sydney Souter, chief, Prisons Branch, Legal
Division, OMGUS.

Glass, page 7. Article by John M. Warde, chief,
Ceramics and Glass Section, Industry Branch,
Economies Division, OMGUS.

Industry, page 11. Part 4 in Central German
Agencies series.

Removed as Reparations, pages 16-17. Pictorie’,
feature.

Education Mission, page 19. Resume of briefing
of group of American educators making survey
of US Zone.

No. 58 — Sept. 9, 1946 — 28 pages
Proof of Nazi Guilt, page 4. Condensed text
of summation address by Rubert H. Jackson,
US chief prosecutor, before International
Miltary Tribunal in Nuremberg.

Orientation Program, page 7. Description of
instruction given new American occupation
personnel in Germany.

Food and Agriculture, page 9. Part 5 in Central
German Agencies series.

These Are the Accused, page 12. Excepts of
Prosecutor Jackson's characterization of IMT
defendents in Nuremberg, with pen sketches
by Henry W. Koerner, Graphics Section, Con-
trol Office, OMGUS.

Kinderfest, pages 14-15. Pictorial feature of
US soldiers’ party for German children.

No. 59 — Sept. 16, 1946 — 32 pages

We Want A Lasting Peace, page 4. Text of
speech by Secretary of State James F. Byrnes
in Stuttgart, Sept. 6.

Bipartite Board Approves Basic Principles of
Economic Unity, page 7. Summary of agree-
ment of British and US military governors on
economic fusion of their zones.

DANA, page 9. Article written by H. Warner
Waid, Editor, Information Bulletin. Reviewing
development of German news agency in US
Zone.

Finance, page 11.*Part 6 of Central German
Agencies series.

Reconstruction, pages 16-17. Pictorial feature of
work in US Zone.

Results of Soviet Zone Elections Reviewed by
Berlin Newspapers, page 21. Selection of press
editorials.

No. 60 — Sept. 23, 1946 — 28 pages
Town Hall Meeting, page 4. Article written by.
H. Warner Waid, Information Bulletin. Sum-
marizing first major community forum in
western Germany, held in Bad Reichenhall,
Bavaria, under sponsorship of Major Melvin
Mowrence, local MG officer.
German-American Lecture Group, page . 7.
Article by Mrs. Muriel J. Wood, Education
Branch, Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS- rounding up reports of
meetings and plans in Wiesbaden, Munich,
Berlin, Bremen, Heilbrunn and Stuttgart.
Political Parties, page 8. Summary of report by
Political Affairs ‘Division, OMGUS stating
principles, aims and personnel of various
recognized parties.

Communications, page 11. Part 7 or Central
German Agencies series.

Der Tagesspiegel, pages 14-15. Pictorial feature
of US-licensed independent daily newspaper in
Berlin.

Agreements Made for Interzonal Exchange of
German Publications, page. 16. Text of Infor-
mation Central Regulation No. 3 approved by
British, French and US authorities but rejected
by Soviet.

Editorials in Licensed Press View Byrnes’
Stuttgart Speech, page 22. Selections from Ger-
man press.

US Editors Support Objectives Outlined by
Byrnes at Stuttgart, page 25. Selections from
American press,

No. 61 — Sept. 30, 1946 — 28 pages
Showcase of Bavarian Industry, page 4. Article
by Thomas A. Falco, chief reports officer,
Reports and Statistics Branch, Economics Divi-
sion, OMGUS, reviewing Export Exposition in
Munich,

21

New Stamps for Germany, page 7. Article by
John D, Ryals, Jr., Reports and Statistics
Section, Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS, describing new designs
approved ACA for issue.

Transportation, page 9. Part 8 of Central Ger-
man Agencies series.

US Zone Industrial Production Reached New
peak during August, page 12. Summary of
monthly economic review in US Zone.

First Allied Barges Reach Berlin via Inland
Waterway, page 13.

Mittelschule 1, pages 14-15. Pictorial feature of
upper elementary school No. 1 in the Steglitz
borough of Berlin.

Germans Convinced Nuremberg Defendants
Received Fair Trial, page 19. Summary of
eight public opinion surveys conducted by
Oftice of Information Central, OMGUS.

No. 62 — Oct. 7, 1946 — 36 pages

The Verdict, page 4. Extracted text of judg-
ment and sentences of International “Military
Tribunal in Nuremberg concerning 22 individual
defendants and seven organizalions of Nazi
Germany.

Berlin Elections, page 8. Article by Col. Louis
Glaser, chief, Civil Administration and Political
Affairs Branch, OMG Berlin District, pre-
viewing first city-wide elections.

Eisenhower Sees MG Improvement, page 11.
Transcript of talk by US Army chief of staff
to news correspondents in Berlin Sept. 30.
Youth Activities Program, page 13. Preview of
USFET directive setting up US Army's assi-
stance to German Youth Activities.

No. 63 — Oct. 14, 1946 — 28 pages

Demobilization of German's Armed Forces,
page 4. Summary of OMGUS report. '
Liberalizing German Information Services,
page 7. Summary and text of OMGUS policy
directive applied to German newspapers,
publications and radio.

Our Foreign Policy, page 9. Text of State
Department statement issued by Office of
Political Affairs, OMGUS.

Jewish Displaced Persons Express Gratitude
for Aid Extended by US, page 11. Summary of
letters of thanks to OMGUS officials.
Commercial Activities Defined, page 12.
Summary of USFET circular listing permitted

,and prohibited business transactions for occu-

pation personnel.
Nuremberg Toy Plant, pages 14-15. Pictorial
feature.

August Shipments Include First Formal Resti-
tution to Soviets, page 16. Announcement of
restitution of archival material from collecting
points in US Zone.

Plan for Liquidating German War Potential
Sel Up by ACA, page 17. Summary of ACA
directive.

Editorials in Licensed Press See Justice in
Nuremberg Verdicts, paye 22. Selection from
German press.

US Editorial View Historical Importance of
Nuremberg Trials, page 24. Selections from
American press.

No. 64 — Oct. 21, 1946 — 28 pages

The Disarmament Program, page 4. Summary
of OMGUS report.

Denazification: German Version, page 7. Article
by Mrs. Marguerite Patton, acting chief of
reports, research and statistics, Public Safety
Branch, Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS, reviewing four-month pro-
gress made by Germans.

McNarney Explains Security Situation, page 9.
Text of intelligence summary issued by Gene-
ral Joseph T. McNarney, US military governor
and theater commander.

Army Oulliftes Aid to German Youth, page 11.
Summary of USFET directive directing co-
operation with MG program.

Porcelain by Rosenthal, pages 15-16. Pictorial
feature.

Aims of Bizonal Unity, page 16. Review of
development of German Executive Commiitee
for Economics in administering combined area.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
No. 65 — Oct. 28, 1946 — 28 pages
Decartelization: The Coal Industry, page 4.
Adaptation of report by Decartelization
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS.
2,618,000 Students, page 7. Summary of reports
concerning elementary and secondary school
education in US Zone.

Reopening Administrative Courts, page 9.
Article by Basil D. Sartin, chief, Administrative
Courts Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, explaining German system having no
counterpart in the United States.

Restitution Program Reviewed, page 11. Sum-
mary of German-looted cultural objects returned
to rightful owners.

Berlin Elections, pages 14-15. Pictorial feature
and digest of results.

Conservation Program Outlined to Meet Critical
Fuel Shortage, page 17. Summary of instruc-
tions fo occupation personnel.

No. 66 — Nov. 4, 1946 — 32 pages

Shipment Begun on Largest Export Order from
US Zone, page 4. Details of huge lumber
shipment arranged by Economics Division,
OMGUS, ‘to Great Britain and the Netherlands
to repair war damage.

Price Control, page 7. Articles prepared by
Price Control Section, Trade and Commerce
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, re-
viewing MG and German accomplishments.
Die Neue Zeitung (The New Newspaper),
page 9. Article prepared by the Office of the
Director of Information Control, OMGUS,
reviewing the purpose and development of the
US-operated German-language newspaper.
Berlin Command, OMGUS, page 11. Explanation
of reorganization and consolidation of local
MG and military operations in Berlin.
Headquarters of US Military Government,
pages 15-18. Pictorial feature of physical faci-
lities of OMGUS in Berlin.

DANA Receives MG License as Cooperative
German Enterprise, page 19. Summary of
licensing procedure.

Public Approval of Nuremberg Verdicts
Revealed by ICD Poll, page 23. Summary of
nine opinion surveys conducted on this subject
by Office of Director of Information Control,
OMGUS.

No. 67 — Nov. 11, 1946 — 28 pages

The German Political Scene, page 4. Article
by Richard M. Scammon, chief, Elections
Affairs Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, evaluating current political situation
in four zones of Germany.

Land Youth Conference, page 6. Summary of
report prepared by OMG Hesse on US Army
assistance to German youth.

Prefabricated Houses, page 8. Article prepared
by Industry Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS, on assistance of export program to
German economy.

New Nuremberg Trials, page 11. Preview of
war crimes trials to be conducted by US
Military Government of some 250 German
governmental officials, industrials, financiers,
professional persons and other involved in the
Nazi scheme for world domination.

Progress by Military Government, page 13.
Text of broadcast by Lt. Gen. Luicus D. Clay,
deputy military governor, reviewing 16 months
of American occupation in Germany.

German Youth Program, pages 14-15. Pictorial
feature of activities of Bremen Boys Club with
assistance of American soldiers.

No. 68 — Nov. 18, 1946 — 28 pages

Custodian of German Economy, page 4. Article
by Thomas A. Falco, chief reports officer,
Reports and Statistics Branch, Economics Divi
sion, OMGUS, reviewing operations and pro-
gress of ACA Economics Directorate.

The Land Constitutions, page 6. Article by
Richard M. Scammon, chief, Election Affairs
Branch, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS,
giving preview of referendums on newly drafted
constitutions and election of members of legis-
latures in states of US Zone.

MG Radio, page 8. Explanation of operation
of radio to speed instructions to MG detach-
ments in field.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

OMGUS Civilian Employees _ Association,
page 10. Article describing activities of council
to serve occupation personnel.

A Year of Potsdam, page 13. Review of book
published by Economics Division, OMGUS,
reviewing economic development in Germany
during first year of occupation.

Export Exhibit, pages 14-15. Pictorial feature
of Hessian trade and inustry exposition in
Wiesbaden.

+ No. 69 — Nov. 25, 1946 — 28 pages

Kaiser Wilhelm Society, page 4. Article by
Edward O. Strobel, reports officer, Finance
Division, OMGUS, reviewing foundation,
growth and war potential of German scientific
organization and its postwar dissolution by
ACA order.

Clemency Board, page 6. Article describing
purpose and function of new organization of
Legal Division, OMGUS, to review cases of
prisoners sentenced by MG and German courts.
The Theater, page 8. Article by Benno D. Frank,
chief of theater and music control. Office of
Director of Information Control OMGUS,
reviewing reception by Germans of American
plays being presented in German theaters and
process of denazification of theatrical field.
Land Reform, page 11. Article by Philip M.
Rapp, assistant chief, Land Section, Food and
Agriculture Branch, Economics Division, OM-
GUS, reviewing effort to break up German army
properties, estates and woodlands into small
individually owned farms.

No. 70 — Dec. 2, 1946 — 28 pages

Water Police, page 4. Article prepared by
Water Transport Branch, Transportation Divi-
sion, OMGUS, on organizations of waterways
inspection and security units.

The World im Film, page 6. Article prepared
by Information Control Division, OMG Bavaria,
on joint British-American operation of weekly
newsreel service for licensed German movie
theaters.

Population Census, page 9. Article by Karl A.
Shafer, chief, population and Survey Branch,
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, pre-
senting preliminary results from first postwar
census in Germany.

Political Apathy, page 11. Article by Hans
Kallmann, American political analyst with
OMGUS, summarizing intelligence reports on
why German people shun politics and political
parties.

Violin Makers, pages 14-15. Pictorial feature
on famed local industry in Mittenwald south-
ern Bavaria.

No. 71 — Dec. 9, 1946 — 28 pages

Labor Unions, page 4. Article prepared by
Labor Relations Branch, Manpower Division,
OMGUS, summarizing postwar union activties
in US Zone.

Forum of the Air, page 6. Article prepared by
Public Relations Branch, OMG Wuerttemberg-
Baden, on Radio Stuttgart's program of town
meetings.

Two Concepts of Democracy, page 8. Article
by Hans A. Kallmann, political analyst, OM-
GUS, comparing basic beliefs of Americans
and Germans in respect to democratic life.
Picture Magazine for Germans, page 11. Article
prepared by Office of Director of Information
Control, OMGUS, explaining purpose and
achievement of Heute (Today), semi-monthly
magazine published by US Military Government.
Rhine River Commission, page 13. Summary
of OMGUS report concerning international
supervision of navigation on waterway.
Discipline of Civilian Employees, page 15.
Summary of OMGUS directive covering ad-
ministrative and judicial procedures.

No. 72 — Dec. 16, 1946 — 28 pages

The Housing Problem, page 4. Article prepared
by Housing Section, Wage and Standards
Branch, Manpower Division, OMGUS, reviewing
progress in reconstruction in Germany.
Financial Intelligence, page 7. Article by
Frederick C. Dirks, chief, Statistical Research
Unit, Finance Divison, OMGUS, reviewing the
uncovering and tracing of the financial aspects
of German political and economic affairs.

22

Combined Services Directorate, page 10. Article’
prepared by Armed Forces Division, OMGUS,
summarizing achievements of three ACA ser-

-vice directorates prior to consolidation.

Bizonal Economic Merger Defined, page 12.
Text to radio broadcast over Voice of America
Dec. 7 by Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, deputy
military governor, explaning purpose of
economic fusion of British and American Zones.

No. 73 — Dec. 23, 1946 — 28 pages

Religious Affairs, page 4. Article by Otto G
Heiberg, Evangelical specialist, Religious
Affairs Section, Education and Religious
Affairs Branch, Internal Affairs and Communi-
cations Division, OMGUS, describing MG
efforts to assure freedom of religious beliefs,
worship, and institutions in US Zone.

Music in Germany, page 6. Article by Walter
Hinricisen, music control officer, Office of
Director of Information Control, OMGUS,
reviewing postwar activities.

Restoration of Churches, page 8. Article by
Edward S. Peck, catalogue officer, Monuments,
Fine Arts and Archives Section, Restitution
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, de-
scribing efforts om MG and German agencies
to restore cultural buildings in US Zone.

The Library of Congress Mission, page 10.
Article by L. E. Nachman, member of mission
in Germany, describing efforts to revive
exchange of books after war.

The ACA Building, pages 13-15. Pictorial fea-
ture of scenes at ACA headquarters in Berlin.

No. 74 — Jan. 6, 1947 — 48 pages

Civil Administration 1946-1947, page 4. Article
by Dr. Roger H. Wells, adviser to director,
Civil Adminstration Division, OMGUS, re-
viewing year's activities.

Industry 1946-1947, page 6. Article prepared
by Industry Branch, Economics Division, OM-
GUS, reviewing, year's activities.

Food and Agriculture 1946-1947, page 8. Article
prepared by Food and Agriculture Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS, reviewing year's
activities.

Trade and Commerce 1946-1947, page 10. Article
prepared by Trade and Commerce Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS, reviewing inter-
nal trade progress and price control.

Review of 1946, page 12. Chronology of events
and progress of Military Government during
past year.

Occupation Progress Reviewed, page 17. Text
of New Year's message to German people by
General Joseph T. McNarnay, US military

No. 75 — Jan. 13, 1947 — 28 pages

Message from the Deputy Military Governor,
page 4. Text of letter by Lt. Gen. Luicus D.
Clay ot MG personnel, citing major current
developments.

New German Civil Service, page 6. Article by
Lt. Col. R. P. Rosengren, former chief, Civil
Service Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, outlining democratization program.
The Chemical Industry, page 8. Review pre-
pared by Chemical Section, Industry Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS, describing pro-
gress of MG program to develop industry into
peacetime economy.

Control of Scientific Research, page 11. Article
by George Scatchard, chief, Research Control
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS.
Become a Miner, pages 13-15, Pictorial feature
on campaign to enlist miners for the Ruhr.
Effect of Economic Merger, page 16. Preview
by Economics Division, OMGUS, of results
expected from economic fusion of British and
American Zones.

No. 76 — Jan. 20, 1947 — 28 pages

Internment Camps, page 4. Review prepared
by Public Safety Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS, describing
conditions in the eleven enclosures maintaine
in the US Zone for detention of Germans in
automatic arrest categories.
Tuberculosis in the US Zone, page 6. Article
by Lt. Col. E. J. Dehne ,chief, Preventive
Medicine Section, Public Health Branch, Inter-
nal Affairs and Communications Branch, OM-
GUS, describing cause of high rate and efforts
to reduce it.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 26 ---
Indigenous Personnel Office, page 8. Review
prepared by the Office of the Personnel Officer,
OMGUS, describing supervision of 40,000 Ger-
man employees of the US Army in Berlin.
Publishers Questions Answered, page 11.
Summary of statement by Brig. Gen. Robert
McClure, director of information control,
OMGUS, at conference of German newspaper
publishers. .

New Textbooks for German Schools, page 12.
Article by Dr. Hans Jaeger, chief, Textbook
Section, Education and Religious Affairs
Branch, Internal Affairs and Communications
Division, OMGUS.

Bipartite Economic Control Group, pages 14-15.
Feature on one BICO group located in Minden.

No. 77 — Jan. 27, 1947 — 28 pages

Border Police, page 4. Review prepared by
Public Safety Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS, describing
control along international boundaries of US
Zone.

Decartelization: The Oil Industry, page 6.
Article by Richard G. Leonard, senior cartel
analyst, Decartelization Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS.

German Veterinary Laboratories, page 9. Article
by Lt. Col. F. A. Todd, chief, Veterinary
Affairs, Public Health Branch, Internal Affairs
and Communications Division, OMGUS, de-

scribing postwar control. of sale of meat
products.
Evaluation of the German Vote, page 11.

Critical analysis by Hans A. Kallmann, poli-
tical analyst, OMGUS, of postwar elections as
compared with pre-occupation results.
Progress of Self-Government, page 13. Text
of speech by Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, deputy
military governor, before German Council of
States in Stuttgart, reviewing record of past
year and citing responsibilities of elected
German officials.

No. 78 — Feb. 3, 1947 — 44 pages
Five consecutive issues devoted to 26 ar-
ticles describing various offices and func-
tions of US Military Government in
Germany.

Four-Power, page 4.

The Land Governments, page 9.

MG Policies, Regulations, Directives, page 14

MG in the Field, page 16.

The Executive Offices, page 20.

No. 79 — Feb. 10, 1947 — 40 pages
Information Control, page 4.
Manpower Division, page 10.
Finance Division, page 14.
Frankfurt Bank, pages 21-23. Pictorial feature.

Legal Division, page 24, Including war-crimes
trials.

No. 80 — Feb. 17, 1947 — 44 pages

Internal Affairs and Communications Division,
page 4.

Communications, page 6.
Public Welfare, page 10.
Education, page 14. Article
activities.

Youth Program Implemented, page 19. State-
ment issued by State, War and Navy Depart-
ments in Washington, defining US policy in
Germany.

Army Youth Program, pages 21-23. Pictorial
feature illustrating assistance given by Amer-
ican soldiers to German youth.

Religious Affairs, page 24.

Public Health, page 28.

German Deficiencies Listed, page 33 (not in
MG seriers). Text of address by Lt. Gen. Lucius
D. Clay, deputy military governor, at February
meeting of German Council of States in Stutt-
gart, dealing with tights of refugees, public
employees and coal mining.

New Export Procedures Established, page 34.
Summary of JEIA agreement.

No. 81 — Feb. 24, 1947 — 28 pages
Transport, page 4.
Civil Administration, page 7.

includes youth

MARCH 1953

Public Safety, page 10. Including denazifica-
tion,
Prisoners of
page 13.
Armed Forces, page 15.

No. 82 — March 3, 1947 — 44 pages
Economics Division, page 4.
Industry, page 7.
Food and Agriculture, page 12.
Trade and Commerce, page 16.
Bavarian Export Show, pages 21-23. Pictorial
feature.
Restitution, page 24.
Decartelization, page 30.

No. 83 — March 10, 1947 — 32 pages

Germany's Workshop, page 4. Article by
Arthur Settel, public relations officer, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, describing progress
in postwar rebuilding of German industrial
capacity.

Barter Organizations, page 8. Review prepared
by Price Control and_ Distribution Section,
Trade and Commerce Branch, Economics Di-
vision, OMG, Wuerttemberg-Baden, describing
operations of the barter centers and the ex-
change groups.

MG Officials Meet the German Press, page 10.
Description of the opening of American press
conferences to accredited German reporters.
Occupation Problems Appraised, page 13. Di-
gest of transcript of press conference by Ge-
neral Joseph T. McNarney, US military gover-
nor, in Berlin Feb. 21.

Stock Exchanges, page 14. Article by G. B.
Erdmann, Financial Institutions Branch, Finance
Division, OMGUS, describing exchanges in
Frankfurt, Munich and Stuttgart.

Bizonal Policy Explained, page. 19. Statement
issued by Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, deputy
military governor, in reply to attacks on US-
UK economic fusion agreement.

War and Displaced Persons,

No. 84 — March 17, 1947 — 28 pages

Leipzig Fair, page 4. Article by Majorie A.
Yahraes, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
describing Soviet Zone version of traditional
German fair.

Abolition of the State of Prussia, page 8. Ar-
ticle written by H. Warner Waid, editor,
Information Bulletin, on historical development
of Prussia, its tremendous power exerted
against other nations and its final dissolution
by ACA law.

Bizonal Agency for Communications, page 10.
Article by Thomas E. Nelson, reports officer,
Communications Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS, describing
German assumption of ‘control over postal,
telegraphic and other communication facilities
in Bizonal Area.

Achievements of MG Appraised, page 12. Re-
print of article by Gen. Joseph T. McNarney,
retiring US Military governor, in Army-Navy-
Journal.

Col. William W. Dawson, page 15. Obituary
concerning late director of the Regional
Government Coordinating Office in Stuttgart.

No. 85 — March 24, 1947 — 28 pages

Theater Reorganization Plan, page 4. Articlé
concerning appointment of Lt. Gen. Lucius D.
Clay as US military governor and commander-
in-chief, European Command; action defining
military government and military operations
in Germany, and text of farewell address by
General Joseph T. McNarney, retiring military
governor and theater commander.

Cosumer Cooperatives, page 8. Article by Mal-
colm D, Taylor, US member of the Special
Working Party on Consumer Cooperation So-
cieties, Finance Directorate, ACA, describing
revival of cooperative societies in Germany.
The Bremen Port, page 10. Article prepared by
OMG Bremen describing operations of port
in handling all shipping for US Zone.

Bizonal Organizations, page 14. Article ex-
plaining purpose, organization and functions
of US-UK control agency for two-Zone econo-
mic fusion and relations with German organi-
zation,

Position of Advisory Parliament, page 19. Text
of speech by Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, then

23

deputy military governor, at March meeting of
German Council of States in Stuttgart, de-
scribing future German responsibilities.

Special II — March 25, 1947 — 184 pages
Collection of 26 articles of the MG Series
published in Issues 78-82, listed above,
plus the following articles from previous
issues:

Are There

No. 37).

The Stuttgart Address, page 169 (see ‘We

Want a Lasting Peace”, No. 59). ,

The Potsdam Agreement, page 176 (see ‘‘The

Potsdam Conference Statement’’, No. 3).

No. 86 — March 31, 1947 — 24 pages
New Standards for German Nursing, page 4,
Article by Miss Lorena J. Murray, chief of
nursing affairs, Public Health Branch, Internal
Affairs and Communications Division, OMGUS.
Property Control, page 8. Review prepared by
Property Control Branch, Finance Division,
OMGUS, explaining work of branch and field
officers in controlling and safeguarding prop-
erties of UN nationals in Germany.

Bavarian China for Export, page 11. Article by
John N. Warde, ceramics specialist, Consumer
Goods Section, Industry Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS, describing problems facing
industry.

Approach to Sympathy, page 14. Reprint from
British Zone Review, biweekly magazine of the
Control Commission for Germany (British Ele-
ment), cautioning British MG personnel against
German sympathy campaign and citing results
of similar campaign after World War I.
Battle of the German Mind, page 23. Digest of
article by Virginius Dabney in the Richmond
(Va.) Times Dispatch following tour of US
Zone.

No. 87 — April 7, 1947 — 36 pages
German Books and Magazines, page 4. Article
by Dr. Douglas Waples, chief, Publications
Control Branch, Information Control Division,
OMGUS, describing progress and problem in
reviving publishing industry in US Zone.
More Housing Planned in Ruhr, page 7. Sum-
mary of plan to care for 100,000 additional
miners for coal production.

Hoover Industry Program, page 8. Text of re-
port by Herbert Hoover following economic
fact-finding survey tour in Germany.

What German Leaders Think, page 12. Review
summarizing the method and results of the
public opinion surveys conducted by the In-
formation Control Division, OMGUS.

German Camp Situation Clarified, page 19.
Statement by Dr. James R. Newmann, director,
OMG Hesse, concerning civilian internment
enclosure at Darmstadt.

No. 88 — April 14, 1947 — 28 pages

Germany's Food Problem, page 4. Review pre-
pared by Food and Agriculture Branch, Econo-
mics Division, OMGUS.

OMGUS Reference Library, page 8. Article by
Henry A. Dunlap, chief librarian, Office of the
Adjutant General, OMGUS, describing collec-
tion and service.

Battle of the Rhine, page 10. Review previded
by Water Transport Branch, Transport Division,
OMGUS, describing river navigation during
past winter, the most severe in 50 years.
Duties for L & S Office Defined, page 13, Text
of Standing Operating Procedure for MG liai-
son and security offices.

No. 89 — April 21, 1947 — 16 pages
Land Wuerttemberg-Baden, page 3. Article pre-
pared by Public Relations Office, OMG Wuert-
temberg-Baden, describing historical back-
ground and current situation of US Zone state.
CARE, page 5. Article by Donald Ostrander,
director, CARE for Berlin, describing its wel-
fare work.

Food Crisis Held German Test, page 7. Text
of speech by General Lucius D. Clay, military
governor, before April meeting of German
Council of States in Stuttqart. :

Making German Tires, page 8. Review prepared
by Chemicals Section, Industry Branch, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, describing industry
in US Zone.

"Good" Nazis?, page 106 (see

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
No. 90 — April 28, 1947 — 16 pages

MG's Task in Industry, page 2. Summary of
briefing session for group of American business
executive and text of report by Col. Harry
L. Berno, chief, Industry Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS.  ~

The Export Buyers Guide to Germany, page 5.
Description of information brochure prepared
by the Economics Division, OMGUS, to assist
visiting industrialists and businessmen.

Corn Imported for Food, page 6. Announcement
of substitute for wheat.

Industrial Revival Noted, page 7. Economic
teview by Economics Division, OMGUS.
Frankfurt Academy of Labor, page 8. Article
by Albert A. Mavrinac, manpower specialist,
OMG Hesse, describing postwar reopening.
Confidence Expressed in British MG, page 11.
Excerpt from press conference statements by
General Lucius D. Clay, military governor,
concerning terse situation in Ruhr.

No. 91 — May 5, 1947 — 16 pages
Coal Production, page 2. Review prepared by

Coal Section, ‘Industry Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS, describing ‘efforts and
problems.

Restoration, page 5. Review prepared by Monu-
ments, Fine Arts and Archives Section, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, concerning return
of art objects and reconstruction of damaged
cultural institutions,

Bremen MG Policy Outlined, page 7. Text of —

radio address by Thomas F. Dunn, director,
OMG Bremen, offering advise, aid and guide
to new state.

Health Resorts, page 7. Article by Majorie A.
Yahraes, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
describing postwar reconstruction of spas as
tourist attractions.

No. 92 — May 12, 1947 — 20 pages
Teacher Training, page 2. Article by John
Frederic Kraus, Education and Religious Af-
fairs Branch, Internal Affairs and Communica-
tions Division, OMGUS.

Public Utilities, page 5. Review prepared by
Public Utilities Section, Industry Branch, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, describing current
electric power and manufactured gas produc-
tion.

Youth Hostels, page 6. Article by Dr. L. E.
Norrie, Education and Religious Affairs Branch,
Internal Affairs and Communications Division,
OMGUS, describing revival of hosteling move-
ment.

Moscow Conference, page 7. Text of address
by Secretary of State George C. Marshall,
following Council of Foreign Ministers Con-
ference.

OMGUS Employee Suggestion-Awards Program,
page 11, Announcement of zone-wide program.

No. 93 — May 19, 1947 — 16 pages
Nuremberg Trials, page 3. Article by H. Peter
Dreyer, acting public relations officer, Office
of Chief of Counsel for War Crimes, describ-
ing trials under way in Nuremberg.

Laender Advised to Adopt Decress, page 6.
Text of speech by General Lucius D. Clay, US
military governor, before May session of
German Council of States in Stuttgart, stressing
deliveries of foodstuffs, utilization of produc-
tion and future of education.

New Books on Germany's Past, page 7. Review
prepared by Research Branch, Information Con-
trol Division, OMGUS, of four recent out-
standing books written by Germans.

Juvenile Detention Home, page 9. Articles by
Mildred Biklen, chief, Public Welfare Branch,
Berlin Sector, on institute's work.
Anti-Semitism in Germany, page 12. Summary
of poll conducted by Public Opinion Surveys
Unit, Research Branch, Information Control
Division, OMGUS. :

Marshall's Appraisal, page 13. Selection of
editorials from German press on Secretary
Marshall's speech on Moscow Conference.

No. 94 — May 26, 1947 — 20 pages
Refugees and Expellees, page 3. Article by
Thorley C. Mills, Refugees Branch, Prisoners-
of-War and Displaced Persons Division,
OMGUS, describing current situation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Saga of an Expellee, page 5, First-person ac-
count by refugee from Czechoslovakia of her
experiences.

Combined Nutrition Survey, page 7. Excerpt
of report of Allied committee following three-
zone survey.

Services Offered Visiting Buyers, page 9.
Announcement of British and American Eco-
nomics Divisions to aid German economy.
Silver Train to Hungary, page 10. Description
of returned silver, found cached in Germany.
Stagnant Inflation, page 12. Adaptation of spe-
cial OMGUS report.

No. 95 — June 2, 1947 — 24 pages
The Food Situation, page 3. Roundup of recent
official statements and speeches,

GYA Conference, page 5. Article by Dr. Eliza-
beth P. Lam, specialist on youth activities for
girls, Education and Religious Affairs Branch,
Internal Affairs and Communications Division,
OMGUS, summarizing discussions at three-day
conference in Berlin of MG, US Army and
German workers in youth activities.
German Youth Problems, page 7. Text of
address by Mrs. Agnes von Zahn-Harnack,
president of Berlin-Wilmersdorf Women's Club
and prominent German civic leader, before
GYA conference in Berlin.

Books on Germany, page 10. Part 1, Official
Publications, in series by Henry A. Dunlap,
head librarian, OMGUS Reference Library, as
guide for. Americans.

Germans Told to Do Their Share, page 13.
Selection of editorials from German press.
Third Reparations Allotment, page 15. Announ-
cement of Economics Directorate, ACA.
Demilitarization Pressed, page 16. Summary of
OMGUS directive.

No. 96 — June 9, 1947 — 20 pages
Missing Children, page 3. Review prepared by
German Office for Missing Children in Mu-
nich, describing efforts to reunite children and
parents, and to care for orphans.

The German Church, page 4. Review prepared
by Education and Religious Affairs Branch,
Internal Affairs and Communications Division,
OMGUS, describing current religious activities.
Books on Germany, page 6. Part 2, Background
Books, in series,

Re-educating German Youth, page 9. Digest of
speech by Dr. Norman E. Himes, Education
and Religious Affairs Branch, Internal Affairs
and Communications Division, OMGUS, before
GYA conference in Berlin.

Die Welt, page 13. Reprint of article from
British Zone Review, describing _ British-
operated German-language newspaper.

Bizonal Economic Council, page 16. Summary
of formation of German agency to cooperate
with Bipartite Control Office in administrat-
ing economic fusion of US-UK Zone, and text
of Proclamation No. 5 authorizing agency.

No. 97 — June 16, 1947 — 24 pages

Karlsruhe Cleans Up, page 3. Review by Major
William T. Neel, former military government
officer in Karlsruhe, describing how city
removed war damage.

The Women and Reconstruction, page 5. Article
by Elsa Fay, Hartshorne, Education and Reli-
gious Affairs Branch, Internal Affairs and Com-
munications Division, Reviewing German
Women's Conference in Bad Boll, near Stutt-
gart.

Reopening Labor Courts of Wuerttemberg-
Baden, page 7. Article by Theodore Lapp,
chief, Labor Disputes and Social Insurance
Branch, Manpower Division, OMG Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. .
Food Situation Improves in Germany, page 9.
Text of speeches by General Lucius D. Clay,
US military governor, at June meeting of
German Council of States in Stuttgart.
Books on Germany, page 10. Part 3, Special
Books, in series.

Survey of Youth Work, page 12. Summary of
poll by Public Opinion Survey Section, Re-
search Branch, Information Control Division,
OMGUS, concerning American-sponsored GYA
program.

The United States’ Stake in German Economic
Recovery, page 13. Text of address by M. S.
Szymczak, director, Economics Division,
OMGUS, before The Economic Club of Detroit.

24

No. 98 — June 23, 1947 — 24 pages

Training Social Workers, page 3. Article by
Dr. Margerite T. Boylan, special consultant
for Public Welfare Section, Education and
Religious Affairs Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS, following
60-day survey in Germany.

Parliamentary Advisory Council, page 7. Ar-
ticle by Val Bowman, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing working group of the
German Council of States in Stuttgart.

Books on Germany, page 8. Part 4, Internati-
onal Scene, in series.

Milch Sentence is Confirmed, page 10. An-
nouncement of decision of deputy military go-
vernor in upholding conviction and life sentence
of Erhard Milch at war-crimes trial in Nurem-
berg.

Political Parties, page 11. Excerpt from special
OMGUS report, describing parties and their
leaders. :

British Share in Bizonal Activities, page 13.
Text of speech by Lt. Gen. Sir Brian Robertson,
British deputy military governor, to German
Zonal Advisory Council in Hamburg, describ-
ing British participation.

Powers of Economic Council Set, page 14, Text
of Appendix B to MG Proclamation No.
(note issue No. 96).

More War Plants Allocated, page 17. Announce-
ment by Economics Directorate, ACA.

Export Program for Bavaria, page 18. JEIA
announcement.

No. 99 — June 30, 1947 — 20 pages

Deutsche and Dresdner Banks, page 3. Review
prepared by Finance Division, OMGUS, of
international net of these banks during Nazi
period.

Workers’ Education, page 5. Article by Alice
Hansen Cook, special adviser on labor educa-
tion, OMGUS, describing postwar revival.
Germans Must Initiate Own Planning, page 7.
Summary of speech by Kenneth Dayton, deputy
director, OMG Bavaria, at Bavarian Export
Show.

Military Government Regulations, page 8. First
of four Installments giving revised text of
“General Provisions’ — the bible for all
Military Government personnel.

US Proposal for Europe to Help Self, page 12.
Text of address by Secretary of State George
C. Marshall at Harvard University, presenting °
proposal which later developed into the Marshall
Plan.

Red Cross Help for Needy, page 18. Announce-
ment of agreement between Red Cross So-
cieties and OMGUS authorizing activities in
US Zone.

Munich Results Reviewed, page 19. Selection
of editorials from German press on meeting
in Munich of ministers president of Germany.

No. 100 — July 7, 1947 — 20 pages

Gift parcels, page 3. Review prepared by Com-
munications Branch, Internal Affairs and Com-
munications Division, OMGUS, concerning re-
lief sent by parcel post into Germany.

US Informations Centers, page 4. Review
prepared by Publications Control Branch, In-
formation Control Division, OMGUS, and Leslie
I. Poste, chief, Information Centers, OMG
Hesse.

American-German Women's Club, page 6. Re-
view prepared by Public Information Office,
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, of activities of
group in Stuttgart.
Military Government
Part 2 of series.
Berlin Philharmonic, page 9. Article by John
Bitter, chief, Theater and Music Section, In-
formation Control Branch, Berlin Sector, Re-~
viewing postwar revival of noted symphony
orchestra with American assistance.

Upswing in Production, page 12. Economic _re-
view by Reports and Statistics Branch, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, covering May.
Praise for Marshall Plan, page 13. Selection
from American press.

New Hope for Europe, page 15. Selection from
editorials in German press concerning Marshall
Plan.

Regulations, page 7.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 28 ---
No. 101 — July 14, 1947 — 20 pages
Cotton Plan for Germany, page 2. Review
prepared by Textile and Consumer Goods Sec-
tion, Trade and Commerce Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS, concerning importation of
American cotton for German economy.

New Role in MG Courts, page 4. Review pre-
pared by Administration of Justice Branch,
Legal Division, OMGUS, describing develop-
ment into civil role.

Decartelizing IG Farben, page 7. Article by
Richardson Bronson, IG Farben control officer,
Decartelization Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS, reviewing effort to break up giant
chemical combine.

Germany Votes, page 9. Article by Richard M.
Scammon, chief, Elections and Political Parties
Branch, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS,
reviewing elections in all four occupied zones
of Germany.

Military Government Regulations,
Part 3 in series.

Coal for Self-Help Program, page 13. Selection
from American press, generally proposing
scheme for Ruhr coal industry along lines as
later developed in Schuman Plan.

Education System to be Revised, page 19. Sum-
mary of ACA directive, listing ten principles
to be observed.

page 11.

No. 102 — July 21, 1947 — 24 pages

Us Policy in Germany, page 2. Digest of direc-
tive from State, War and Navy Departments
to US military governor, outlining objectives
of the US Government and the basic policies
to be pursued in the US administration of
Germany.

Youth Parliament, page 5. Article by Aksel C.
Nielsen, Youth Activities Section, Education
and Religious Affairs Branch, Internal Affairs
and Communications Division, OMGUS, de-
scribing activities of Stuttgart ‘group.

Insect Control, page 6. Digest of manuscript
prepared by Capt. George E. Schmidt, sanitary
engineer, Preventive Medicine Section, Head-
quarters Berlin Command, OMGUS, describing
work in Berlin area.

Hope Continues in Aid Plan, page 9. Selection
of editorials from German press concerning
Marshall Plan.

Police Given More Duties, page 10. Summary
of OMGUS directive instructing German police
to apprehend German civilians who were
members of organizations declared criminal by
Internal Military Tribunal.

International Summer Schools, page 11. Article
by F. G. Banta, specialist in higher education,
Education and Religious Affairs Branch, Inter-
nal Affairs and Communications Division,
OMGUS, reviewing university projects in US
Zone.

Military Government Regulations, page 13.
Part 4 in series.

PCIRO, page 15. Summary of OMGUS agree-
ment with Preparatory Commission of the
International Refugee Organization for handl-
ing UN displaced persons in US Zone.

DP Assistance Bills Favored, page 17. Selection
of American press supporting Congressional
legislation for immigration of 400,000 displaced
persons.

No. 103 — July 28, 1947 — 16 pages

Child Feeding Program, page 3. Summary of
reports prepared by William C. Okey of the
US Department of Agriculture following spe-
cial study mission in Germany.

Conservation in German Forests, page 4. Ar-
ticle by Fred A. Block, Building Materials
Section, Industry Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS.

Periodical Exchange Permitted, page 6. Sum-
mary of ACA directive for free flow of Ger-
man newspaper, books, magazines and films
among four zones (later obstructed by Soviet
action, sec Issue No. 119).

New Directive Termed Realistic, page 7. Selec-
tion from American press concerning’ policy
directive sent military governor.

Economic Council Told Problems, page 8. Text
of speeches by General Lucius D. Clay, US
military governor, and Sir Sholto Douglas,
British military governor, at meeting of Ger-
man members of Bizonal Economic Council in
Frankfurt.

MARCH 1953.

No. 104 — Aug. 4, 1947 — 24 pages

Bridge Reconstruction, page 3. Review prepar-
ed by Transport Division, OMGUS.

Youth Settlements in Bavaria, page 5. Review
prepared by Public Welfare Branch, OMG
Bavaria.

Spandau Receives War Criminals, page 7.
Announcement of transfer and internment in
Berlin prison of seven major war criminals
convicted by International Military Tribunal
in Nuremberg.

Marks Still Legal Currency, page 8. Summary
of OMGUS instruction to German states to
enforce payment of obligations.

New Directive Wins Support, page 9. Selection
from editorials in German press, generally
expressing favorable comments concerning
policy directive to military governor.

From Ribbentrop's Album, pages 11-14. Pictorial
feature of photographs taken from collection
kept by former German foreign minister.
Dismantling Norddeutsche Huette, page 16.
Article by E. F. McCollum, Reparations,
Removal & Demolition Section, Economics Di-
vision, OMGUS, describing preparation of
huge Bremen steel plant for shippment to
France and India.

No. 105 — Aug. 11, 1947 — 16 pages

777\st Document Center, page 3. Article by
Kurt Rosenow, chief NSDAP Records Branch,
777st Document Center, OMGUS, describing
purpose and activities of depository in Berlin
of Nazi and German wartime records.
Restoration of Communications, page 5. Article
by John D. Ryals, Jr., Reports and Statistics
Section, Communications Branch, Internal
Affairs and Communications Divisions, OMGUS,
describing postwar revival of postal, telegraph
and other communications facilities.
Inter-Allied Music Library, page 11. Article
by Walter Hinrichsen, music control officer,
Information Control Division, OMGUS, describ-
ing project in Berlin for making music of four
occupying powers available to Germans.
Industrial Problems Reviewed, page 13. Selec-
tion from American press of editorials citing
importance of Ruhr coal and German industry
to recovery.
Problem of Uniform Laws, page 14. Text of
speech by General Lucius D. Clay, US military
governor, at August meeting of German Coun-
cil of States in Stuttgart.

No. 106 — Aug. 18, 1947 — 16 pages

Bremen Constitution, page 3. Articles by
Robert A. Fletcher, political affairs officer,
Civil Administration Division, OMG, Bremen,
describing progress in Bremen to attain full
constitutional statue with other three states
of US Zone.

Ruhr Coal Industry, page 5. Review reprinted
from British Zone Review.

Farm Women of Germany, page 7. Article by
Katharine Holtzclaw, special consultant in home
economics, Food and Agriculture Branch, Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, following | four-
month survey tour in Germany.

Berlin MG Biennial Exposition,
Pictorial feature.

Small Firms Model for Germany, page 12.
Summary of radio broadcast by Lloyd V.
Steere, acting director, Office of Political
Affairs, OMGUS.

pages 8-9.

No. 107 — Aug. 25, 1947 — 16 pages
Swiss Vacations for German Children, page 3.
Article by H. R. Kleinke, child welfare officer,
Public Welfare Branch, International Affairs
and Communications Division, OMGUS, de-
scribing project of Swiss Red Cross.

Official Population Estimates, page 4. Sum-
mary of report compiled by Civil Administra-
tion Division, OMGUS.

New Guide for Export Buyers, page 5. Descrip-
tion ‘of revised handbook published by Econo-
mics Division, OMGUS, for visiting business-
men.

MG Plan Spurs New Trade, page 6. Summary
of long-range program for financing foreign
trade of Bizonal Area.

Preventive Medicine and Public Sanitation,
page 7. Article prepared by Lt. Col. E. J.
Dehne, chief, Preventive Medicine Section,

25

Public Health Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS, and Capt.
R. S. Paine, chief of preventive medicine,
Office of the Surgeon, 279th Station Hospital,
Berlin Command, OMGUS, describing work of
protecting health of Americans stationed in
Berlin. :

Progress in Economic Fusion, page 13. Excerpts
of transcript of press conference by Lt. Gen.
Sir Brian Robertson, British deputy military
governor. cg

No. 108 — Sept. 1, 1947 — 24 pages

Four-Zone Inspection of Food & Agriculture,
page 3. Article by Arthur Settel, public in-
formation officer, Economics Division, OMGUS,
describing findings of quadripartite team of
specialists on survey tour of four zones of
Germany.

Farmers Strive for high Crop Yield, page 6.
Digest of radio talk by Dr. Conrad Hammar,
deputy chief, Food and Agriculture Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS, over’ RIAS on
observations during four-zone tour.

Fair Harvest Predicted in UK Zone, page 7.
Reprint from British Zone Review.

Industrial Index Higher, page 10. Economic
review by Economics Division, OMGUS, ‘cover-
ing July.

Bizonal Organization, page 11. Article by
Stephen L. Freeland, public relations officer,
Bipartite Control Office, presenting first com-
prehensive explanation of organization, aims,
policies and activities of Britishy American
and German agencies set up in Frankfurt to
administer economic fusion of. UK and US
Zones.

No. 109 — Sept. 8, 1947 — 16 pages

Civil Liberties, page 3. Article adapted from
address by Henry Parkman, adviser to US
military governor on governmental affairs,
outlining meaning to Americans.

GYA Civic Centers, page 7. Article prepared
by Col. Harry E. McKinney, GYA chief for
Second Military District and Major William
F. Kuder, GYA officer, Heidelberg Military
Post.

Revised Plan for Level of Industry in US-UK
Zones, page 11. Summary and major provisions
of industrial program altered to meet changing
situation in Germany.

No. 110 — Sept. 15, 1947 — 16 pages

Harvest Survey Reveals More Grain, page 2.
Summary of Wuerttemberg-Baden survey show-
ing large portion of crops not reported by
German farmers.

Bavarian Political Scene, page 6. Article by
Dr. Pierre Purves, deputy chief, Political Ac-
tivities Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMG Bavaria, reviewing postwar activities.
Key MG Personnel in US Occupation, page 9.
Roster of ranking offices and persons assigned
to them.

Fertilizer Production, page 13. Revtew of out-
put potential and need for increase in US
Zone.

Level of Industry “Praised, page 15. Selection
of editorials from American press.

No. 111 — Sept. 22, 1947 — 16 pages

Hessian Exports, page 3. Review prepared by
the Public Information Division, OMG Hesse.
German Fishing Fleet, page 5. Review prepared
by Food and Agriculture Branch, Economic
Division, OMGUS, concerning revival of fish-
ing industry at Bremen, Wesermuende and
Bremerhaven.

Aims of New Industry Plan, page 8. Text of
speech by General Lucius D. Clay, US military
governor, at September meeting of German
Council of States in Stuttgart.

Plan for Ruhr Coal Control, page 10. Summary
of Anglo-American agreement.

Returning PW's, page 11. Review prepared by
Public Welfare Branch, Interior Division, OMG
Wuerttemberg-Baden concerning prisoners-of-
war reception camp at Ulm.

No. 112 — Sept. 29, 1947 — 16 pages

Maximization of Agriculture, page 3. Part 1,
“Food Production Planning”, in series of five
articles presenting detailed summary prepared

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
by Food and Agriculture Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS, of the farming and food-
producing situation in the US Zone.

Halder's Diary, page 5. Article by Miss F. M.
Boyle, Public Information Staff, Office of the
Chief of Counsel for War Crimes, Nuremberg,
concerning contents of seven volumes of daily
shorthand records of German military strategy
between September 1939 and September 1942.
Foreign Trade Based on Reichsmark, page 7.
Summary of directive of the Main Price De-
partment of the Bizonal Executive Committee,
extending to Bizonal Area export-import pric-
ing in effect in US Zone since 1945.

Show Windows for Bizonal Exports, page’ 8.
Article by Majorie A. Yahraes, staff writer,
Information Bulletin, describing the main ex-
port fairs in western Germany.

Germany - Key to European Recovery, page 11.
Summary of speech by Charles E. Saltzman, US
assistant secretary of state for occupied areas,
at meeting. of International Council of Wornen
in Philadelphia.

No. 113 — Oct. 6, 1947 — 24 pages
Day Care Centers, page 3. Review prepared by
Public Welfare Branch, Internal Affairs and
Communications Division, OMGUS, concerning
program benefiting 300,000 children in US Zone.
Maximization of Agriculture, page 5. Part 2
“Basic Food Deficiency” in series.

Glossary of Political Parties, page 8.
Coordination of Rail Transportation, page 10.
Article by J. C. Cook, Jr., chief, Movements
Branch, Transport Division, OMGUS.
Weather Forecasting, page 12. Articles by Col.
Don McNeal, chief, Meteorological Section,
Aeronautic Branch, Armed Forces Division,
OMGUS, describing postwar service.

Ruhr Coal and European Recovery, page 15.
Summary of importance of Ruhr to recovery.
Industrial Production, page 19. Economic re-
view by Economic Division, OMGUS, covering
August.

No. 114 — Oct. 13, 1947 — 16 pages

Bavaria Crime Laboratory, page 3. Article
prepared by Public Safety Branch, OMG Ba-
varia.

Maximization of Agriculture, page 6. Part 3
“Implementation of Production Plan’ in series.
Newspapers Assured of Keeping Plants, page 9.
Announcement prepared by Information Con-
trol Division, OMGUS, on directive to blodk
court action by former owners.

German Girl Wins Scholarship, page 10. Ac-
count of daughter of Nazi-executed mayor of
Leipzig going to United States to continue
college studies.

Congressman Explains Aid Procedure, page 11.
Summary of radio speech in Stuttgart by Rep
Everett M. Dirksen, chairman of joint House
Armed Forces-Appropriations Committee, dur-
ing fact-finding tour in Germany.

Food Substitution Forbidden, page 12. Summary
of BICO directive banning use of imported
food suppliers to take place of uncollected
indigenous foods.

No. 115 — Oct. 20, 1947 — 16 pages

Civil Aviation, page 3. Article by James J.
Ferretti, administrative assisant to chief, Civil
Aviaton Branch, Armed Forces Division,
OMGUS, on postwar progress in Germany.
Friends in Germany, page 5. Review prepared
vy American Friends Service Committee in
Berlin, on work and activities of group to
help needy Germans.

Maximization of Agriculture, page 7. Part 4
“Harvest Estimates and Quotas” in series.
Laenderrat Addressed on Anniversary, page 11.
Text of speeches by Maj. Gen. George P. Hays,
US deputy military gove:nor, at second anni-
versary of founding of German Council of
States in Stuttgart.

Reparations Policy Told to Germans, page 11.
Statement by Dr. Don Humphrey, deputy direc-
tor, Economics Division, OMGUS, delivered on
German radio network.

Field Seminars, page 16. Summary of agenda
and discussions at series of meetings of Mili-
tary Government officers conducted by OMG
Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

No. 116 — Oct. 27, 1947 — 20 pages

Plants for Reparations, page 3. Summary of
official US and UK announcement and speeches
by leading officials concerning final list of
war and surplus industrial plant declared for
reparations.

Reforming Juvenile Delinquents, page 5. Re-
view provided by Prisons Branch, Legal Divi-
sion, OMGUS.

Feeding the Hungry in Bavaria, page 8. Article
by Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Public Informa-
tion Branch, OMG Bavaria.

Miximization of Agriculture, page 11. Part 5
"Collections" in series.

No. 117 — Nov. 3, 1947 — 24 pages

The Army's Role in GYA, page 3. Adaption of
speech by Lt. Col. Robert C. Hall, chief, Army
Assistance to GYA, EUCOM Headquarters, at
zone-wide conference in Frankfurt.
Hand-Built City, page 6. Review prepared by
Public Information Branch, OMG Hesse, con-
cerning two community projects near Bad
Vilbel, north of Frankfurt — one to house ex-
pellees and homeless and the other by US
soldiers and the Evangelical Welfare Organi-
zation for homeless boys.

Key MG Personnel, page 9. Review roster.
Public Information, page 17. Adaption of speech
by William Haggard, chief, Public Information
Office, OMGUS, before meeting of public in-
formation officers on public-relations ties
between headquarters and field.

Reparations Opinion Varies, page 21. Selection
from editorials in German press concerning
publication of list of plants designated for
reparations.

Election Procedure Outlined, page 23. Summary
of OMGUS directire for second postwar gene-
ral elections in US Zone.

No. 118 — Nov. 10, 1947 — 16 pages

Explaining Our Side, page 3. Article written
by H. Warner Waid, editor, Information
Bulletin, summarizing of official releases and
data concerning program to Germans, particul-
arly in eastern zone, of US policies and desires,
with translated text of prior political speech
by Colonel Tulpanov, Soviet Military Admini-
stration press chief.

Karlsruhe Harbor, page 5. Review of postwar
reconstruction,

Impounded Films; page 7. Review prepared by
Information Control Division, OMG Bavaria, of
collecting and sorting Nazi-produced films.
Education for Democracy, page 9. Adaption of
address by Dr. James R. Newman, director,
OMG, Hesse, at zone-wide conference of Amer-
ican and German discussion clubs in Heidel-
berg.

Food Poll Taken in British Zone, page 11. Sum-
mary of results of poll by Survey Branch, In-
formation Services Control, Control Commis-
sion for Germany (British Element), in UK
Zone.

No. 119 — Nov. 17, 1947 — 16 pages

Policy on Public Information, page 2. State-
ment by General Lucius D. Clay, US military
governor, giving clear-cut policy on public
relations to correspondents representing Amer-
ican public.

Bremen Industries, page 3. Article by Harry
A. Jacobs, MG trainee, OMG Bremen, present-
ing results of industrial survey in Bremen.
Decartelization, page 6. Article by Phillips
Hawkins, deputy director, Economics Division,
OMGUS, reviewing decartelization policy in
US Zone.

Outlock for Winter Described, page 9. Text of
speech by General Lucius D. Clay, US military
governor, at November meeting of German
Council of States in Stuttgart.

British Occupation Aims Explained, page 11.
Text of radio broadcast by Lt. Gen. Sir Brian
Robertson, British military governor.

Cautain Greets News Policy, page 13. Selec-
tion of editorials from German Press concern-
ing US policy of explaining American demo-
cracy.

Germans Move to Towns, page 15. Analysis by
German state statistical offices of recent
trends on population movements.

26

No. 120 — Nov. 24, 1947 — 16 pages

Economics Situation in Occupied Germany,
page 3, Part 1 ‘'Background” in series of six

articles presenting pertinent sections of
brochure, “Economic Data on Potsdam Ger-
many”, published by Economics Division,
OMGUS,

CRALOG, page 7. Article by Robert Kreider,
CRALOG representative in Germany, explain-
ing purpose and accomplishments of welfare
group.

Why Are We in Germany?, page 9. Text of
address by Lord Pakenham, chancellor of the
Duchy of Lancaster, before Foreign Press Asso-
ciation in London.

Freedom vs. Totalitarianism, page 12. Series,
introduced by Dr. Edward Litchfield, director,
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, pre-
senting American idea of democracy.

New Critical Attitude is Noted Concerning
Occupation Problems, page 13. Selection of
editorials from German’ press.

No. 121 — Dec. 1, 1947 — 24 pages

Ruhr Coal, page 3. Article developed from
material contained in official announcements
and reports of US-UK conferences in Washing-
ton.

Crailsheim Experiment, page 6. Article by Val
Bowman, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
concerning assistance given _Crailsheim,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, by Worthington, Minn.
Economic Situation in Occupied Germany,
Part 2 “Current Status’ in series.

The Press in America, page 11. Article by
Ralph E. McGill, editor, Atlanta (Ga.) Consti-
tution, in Freedom vs. Totalitarianism series.
Berlin Disagreements Reviewed, page 14.. Di-
gest of OMGUS report by Civil Administration
Division, citing growing schism caused by
Soviet officials in quadripartite and Berlin
city administration.

Germany's Unhealthy Economy, page 15. Ana-
lysis of money surplus and goods shortage
affecting German standard of living.

New Regulation Announced, page 19. Summary
of Information Control regulation abolishing
licensing for certain activities.

No. 122 — Dec. 8, 1947 — 16 pages

MG Courts in Bavaria, page 3. Article by Juan
A. A. Sedillo, director, Legal Division, OMG
Bavaria, describing judicial system in Bavaria.
Economic Situation in Occupied. Germany,
page 10. Part 4 "Soviet Zone’ in series.
Adoption Law Approved, page 14. Summary
of OMGUS directive providing for adoption
by Americans of European children.

No. 124 — Dec. 22, 1947 — 16 pages

Goods Allocated to Allies, page 2. Summary of
action of Allied Reparations Agency in Brussels
concerning goods and raw materials owed by
Soviet Union to Western Allied Nations under
Potsdam Agreement.

Christmas Customs, page 3. Article by Henry
S. Matteo, assistant editor, Information Bulletin,
reviewing German customs.

German Border Problem, page 5. Statement by
Secretary of State George C. Marshall at Con-
ference of Foreign Ministers in Moscow, stat-
ing US principle.

Toys, page 6. Article by Fred Bentley, chief,
Program and Review Section, Industry Branch,
Economics Division, and John A. Biggs, deputy
public information officer, both of OMG Ba-
varia, reviewing industry in Bavaria.
Economic Situation in Occupied Germany,
page 10. Part 5 ‘The French Zone”’ and ‘’Neigh-
boring Countries” in series.

Religious Cooperation, page 13. Article by Dr.
Sterling W. Brown, head of Interfaith Relations
and Free Church Affairs, Education and Religi-
ous Affairs Branch, Internal Affairs and Com-
munications Division, OMGUS, concerning co-
operation among various religious groups im
Germany.

Books Arrive for Germany, page 15. Report on
arrival of 2,000 books, gift of people of North
Carolina to youth of US Zone.

No. 125 — Dec. 29, 1947 — 16 pages

Weekly Information Bulletin, page 3. Review
of OMGUS’ official magazine and announce-

MARCH 1953

--- Page 30 ---
ment of change of period of issue to biweekly.
Castle Inc., page 6, Article by Helen Todd
Westpheling, wife of US Army officer, desrib-
ing assistance to German youth in northern
Bavaria in staring youth center in famous
Trausnitz Castle.

Free Enterprise System for German Foreign
Trade, page 9. Text of speech by Ethel B.
Dietrich, deputy chief of Trade and Commerce
Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS, over
German radio network.

Economic Situation in Occupied Germany,
page 10. Part 6 "The US Zone” and “The
British Zone" in series.

Political Parties, page 14. Article by Richard
M. Scammon, chief, Elections and Political
Parties Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, in the Freedom versus Totalitarianism
series.

No. 126 — Jan. 13, 1948 — 32 pages

Economic Outlook for 1948, page 2. Statement
by Dr. Donald D. Humphrey, deputy director,
Economics Division, OMGUS.

Review of 1947, page 3. Chronology of salient
events and developments during year.
American Good Will at Christmas Time, page
25, Roundup of activities.

Key MG Personnel, page 27. Revised roster.

No. 127 — Jan. 27, 1948 — 32 pages

London Conference, ‘page 3. Article by John
Elliott, consultant to director, Civil Admini-
stration Division, OMGUS, reviewing results
of conference of Council of Foreign Ministers.
Statement by Secretary Marshall, page 5. Text
of radio address by secretary of state to
nation on results of London conference.
Statement by General Robertson, page 9. Re-
view by General Sir Brian Robertson, British
military governor, after return from London
conference.

Editorials in American Press, page 10. Selection
from American editorials concerning London
Conference.

Editorials in German Press, page 12. Selection
from German editorials concerning London
conference.

Bizonal Unity Strengthened, page 14. Summary
of proposal for creation of German Economic
Administration to broaden German responsibi-
lities.

It's the Law, page 18. Article by M. A.
Weightman, report officer, Legal Division,
OMGUS, citing various legislations in effect
in Germany.

Habeas Corpus, page 20. Statement by Alvin
J. Rockwell, director Legal Division, OMGUS,
proposing German adoption of this institution.
Hope Stressed for Peace in Germany, page 25.
Selection of editorials from German press.

No. 128 — Feb. 10, 1948 — 24 pages

The Black Market and Barter Deals, page 3.
Digest of OMGUS report by Trade and Com-
merce Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS.
Hollywood in Bavaria, page 6. Article by John
A. Biggs, deputy public information officer,
OMG Bavaria, describing premier of German's
first postwar motion picture.

German Import Program, page 8. Statement by
Lawrence Wilkinson, director, Economics Di-
vision, OMGUS, announcing funds available
for purchases abroad.

German-American Discussion Groups, page 14.
Review of activities of 14 groups in US Zone.
Political Youth in Berlin, page 17. Article by
William F, Heimlich, acting chief, Civilian
Administration Branch, OMG Berlin Sector,
reviewing activities of political youth groups.
New Permanent Stamps on Sale, page 18.
Announcement of use of first postwar designs.
Abbreviations Used in Occupation, page 19.
List compiled by Information Bulletin.

US Representatives in ACA, page 22. Roster
of officials on various quadripartite bodies.

No. 129 — Feb. 24, 1948 — 28 pages

The Marshall Plan and Western Germany,
page 3. Adaption from series of brochures
published by the US Department of State.

Fighting Poliomyelitis in Berlin, page 6. Ar-
ticle by Lt. Col. Adam J. Rapalski, Jr., chief,
Public Health Branch, OMG Berlin Sector,

MARCH 1953

reviewing fight, chiefly American health autho-
rities and visiting specialists, against 1947
outbreak.

US Constabulary, page 9. Reprint from Army
Information Digest, describing functions and
activities of US Army's security force in
Germany.

Streamlining Spurs JEIA Progress, page 12.
Article by William John Logan, director ge-
neral, Joint Export-Import Agency, explaining
effort to train Germans to take over export
trade functions.

MG Intern Program, page 13. Explanation pro-
gram for training new personnel for positions
in Military Government.

Bizonal Strengthening Explained, page 18.
Speech by General Lucius D. Clay, US military
governor, at February meeting of German
Council of States in Stuttgart.

Development of the Marshall Plan, page 21.
Adaption of article from Troop I & E Bulletin.

No. 130 — March 9, 1948 — 36 pages

German Constitutions, page 3. Condensed ver-
sion of special OMGUS report prepared by
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, inter-
preting constitutions already adopted in the
American, French and Soviet Zones.

Patriarch of Ettlingen, page 9. Personality
sketch by Henry S. Matteo, assistant editor,
Information Bulletin, concerning Heinrich
Kauffmann, former mayor and civic leader of
Wuerttemberg city.

Canals of Western Germany, page 11. Review
of waterways network.

Missing Persons Service Widened, page “14.
Summary of operation.

Works Council at Stuttgart Plant, page 16.
Article by Nels Anderson, expert consultant,
Information Control and Manpower Division,
OMGUS, on operation of group.

Drug Racket Curbed, page 19. Review of Ger-
man activities under MG guidance.

No. 131 — March 23, 1948 — 32 pages

State Department Announces Policy, page 2.
Statement on plan to take over civilian respon-
sibility. in Germany (later rescinded, see
No. 133).

Displaced Persons, page 3. Review of efforts
to care for DP’s and refugees.

Streamlining OMGUS, page 5. Summary of
reorganization and consolidation in organiza-
tion.

Decentralization of Government, page 8. Digest
of special OMGUS report, prepared by Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS.
Czechoslovakia — A Cause for Hope, page 11.
Radio address by Richard M. Scammon, chief,
Elections and Political Parties Branch, Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS. analyzing
means and impact of Communist coup.

Cities of US Zone, page 16. Part I of series to
two articles describing postwar conditions in
Stuttgart and Berlin, reprinted from Troop
1 &E Bulletin.

Key MG Personnel, page 25. Revised roster.

No. 132 — April 6, 1948 — 32 pages

Germany through the Eyes of Former Model
PW's, page 3. Summary of survey by Opinion
Surveys Section, Information Control Division,
OMGUS.

Restored and Reread, page 5. Article by Ray-
mond Simon, information specialist, Public
Relations Branch, OMG Berlin Section, review-
ing book listing 200 German authors and their
works as banned by the Nazis.

Cultural Goods Restituted, page 7. Summary
of the return of paintings, furniture and art
treasures to countries from which they had
been looted by the Nazis.

Political Parties, page 14. Digest of review
by Civil Administration Division, OMGUS.
Food for the Germans, page 17. Summary of
announcement by the Control Commission for
Germany (British Element) and the Food and
Agriculture Group, Office of the Economics
Adviser, OMGUS, answering German com-
plaints concerning shortages.

Cities of the US Zone, page 23. Part 2 of series,
describing postwar conditions in Munich,
Bremen, Nuremberg and Frankfurt.

27

No. 133 — April 20, 1948 — 24 pages
Army to Continue Control in Germany, page 2.
Announcement of rescission of previous an-
nouncement (see No, 131).

The Food Strikes, page 3. Article by Nels

Anderson, expert consultant, Information
Control and Manpower Divisions, OMGUS,
analyzing protests over shortage of food

supplies in Germany.
The Protest Demonstration in Bavaria, page 5.
Article by Edward L. Deuss, chief, Reports
and Statistics Branch, Manpower Division,
OMGUS, presenting first-hand report of 24-hour
disturbance over food storage.

Democratizing Germany, page 6. Article by
Dr. Harold W. Landin, chief, Democratization
Branch, Civil Administration Divisions,
OMGUS, describing program.

Curriculum Centers, page 8. Article by Payne
Templeton, chief, Schools Branch, Education
and Religious Affairs, Divisions, OMG Wuert-
temberg-Baden, describing Stuttgart project
which developed into Education Service
Center.

How Laws Are Made, page 14. Digest of
OMGUS report prepared by Civil Administra-
tion Division, OMGUS.

No. 134 — May 4, 1948 — 24 pages

Courts in Germany, page 3. Part 1 of two ar-
ticles by M. A. Weightman, reports officer,
Legal Division, OMGUS, reviewing justice
during Nazi regime.

US Blames Soviets for ACA Impasse, page 8.
Text of US note citing systematic unilateral
policy. in Soviet Zone, denial of basic rights
and use of concentration camps.

Troop Information & Education, page 12. Ar-
ticles by Col. Otic McCormick, chief, Troop
Information and Education Service, Head-
quarters, European Command, describing aims,
activities and services.

No. 135 — May 18, 1948 — 32 pages

German Women's Organizations, page 3. Ar-
ticles by Dr. Agnes von Zahn-Harnack, presi-
dent, Berlin Women's Organization (Frauen-
bund), describing history of women’s organiza-
tions in Germany.

Labor Leadership School, page 7. Article by
Nels Anderson, expert consultant, Information
Control and Manpower Divisions, OMGUS,
describing railroad labor union school at
Hammersbach near Garmisch.

6 German Broadcasters Study in US, page 10.
Announcement of departure of radio officials
for six-month study under auspices of the
Rockefeller Foundation and Columbia Univer-
sity.

Courts in Germany, page 11. Part 2 in series
describing postwar reform of justice in
Germany.

Forerunner of Nuremberg, page 15. Reprint of
article in the Manchester (England) Guardian
as presented at the Nuremberg trials.
-Outlook Promising in Wuerttemberg-Baden,
page 20. Speech by Charles LaFollette, director,
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Democracy Needed in Business, page 26, Sum-
mary of statement by Dr. E. H. Litchfield, di-
rector, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS,
explaining directives for postwar reform of
authoritarian controls.

Quadripartite Rupture in_ Berlin, page 28.
Account from Military Governor's Monthly
Report, tracing action of Soviet delegation in
breaking up regular functioning of Allied Con-
trol Authority.

Allied Personnel on ACA Bodies, page 29.
Roster of British, French and Soviet represen-
tatives on ACA and subordinate bodies.

No. 136 — June 1, 1948 — 32 pages

Revolution of 1848, page 3. Article by John
Elliott, consultant to director, Civil Admini-
stration Division, OMGUS, describing purpose
of German Assembly of 1848, cause of its
failure, and analysis of current situation.
Soviet Prophecies on ERP Badifire, page 9.
Summary of OMGUS review, refuting point
by Soviet charges against Marshall Plan.
JEIA Review 4 Months of Work, page 11. Re-
view by W. John Logan, director, Joint
Export-Import Agency, for improving Ger-
many’s international trade.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
American Zone Has Large Surplus, page 13.

Summary from OMGUS teport showing polanc

held by state gove:nment in tax receipts over
expenditures.

US Sending Books to Germany, page 15. Sum-
mary of activities of American libraries and
organization in sending materials for German
institutions.

DEGUSSA, pages 16-17. Pictorial
decorating chinaware.

US Zone Bars Soviet Journals, page 18. An-
nouncement by Information Control Division,
OMGUS, in retaliation for Soviet restrictions.
Founding of the SED, page 22. Summary of
an OMGUS review and analysis of Soviet
authorities’ action in creating Social Unity
Party in Soviet Zone.

feature on

No. 137 — June 15, 1948 — 32 pages

Berlin's Trade Union Fight, page 3. Article
by Albert H. Berman, Monpower Division,
OMGUS, reviewing efforts of organized labor
to break Communist domination and finally
break to set up democratic organization.

The Press on Display, page 6. Article written
by H. Warmer Waid, editor, Iniormat.on
Bullen, describing International Press Ex-
hibition in Munich, especially American con-
tributions.

How JEIA Works, page 8. Review, adapted
from Weekend article written by Dorothy Gies,
staff writer, describing functions and achieve-
ments of Joint Export-Import Agency to devel-
opment German foreign trade.

JEIA Blacklists 240 Foreign Firm, page 13. List
of companies barred from business operations
in Germany.

Potato Drive Brings Results, page 15. Summary
of results of survey to increase potato pro-
duction in Bizonal Area.

Command Post Experiment, pages 16-19. Pic-
torial feature of US Army maneuver.

The Milan Fair and German Exhibits, page 25.
Articles by Paul Bube, assistant economics
editor, Berlin Edition, D-e Neue Ze.tung, des-
cribing participation by German firms in Italian
trade fair.

No. 138 — June 29, 1948 — 32 pages

Currency Reform, page 2. Text of official
announcement replacing old German and Allied
marks with new Deulsche marks and curbing
inflationary trend by reducing amonut in cir-

* culation.

MG School, page 3. Article by Fred C. Dirks,
deputy chief, government Structural Branch,
Civil Administrations. Division, OMGUS, des-
cribing purpose and activities of school at
Oberammergau to train new military govern-
ment personnel.

Bavaria Helps Its Blind, page 7. Article by
John A. Biggs, deputy public information offi-
cer, OMG Bavaria, describing school establish-
ed by Bavarian Red Cross to train blind
persons in useful trades
“seeing-eye"’ dogs.
Justice Case, page 9. Part 1 in series of five
installments, presenting comprehensive revicw
and analysis by Charles M. LaFollette, director,
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden and former pro-
secutor of the Nuremburg trial of members of
the Reich Ministry of Justice and judges of
the People’s Courts and Special Courts.
Stabilization Necessary Now, page 13. State-
ment by Jack Bennett, finance adviser,
OMGUS, concerning currency reform.
Reform Fosters Recovery, page 14, Statement
by Sir Cecil Weir, president, Economic Sub-
commission, CCG (BE), concerning currency
reform.

Hanover Fair, pages 16-17. Pictorial feature by
Al Byers, photographer, JEIA, of second Ex-
port Trade Fair.

Laenderrat’s Functions Given Bizone, page 18.
Speech by General Lucius D. Clay, US military
governor, at June meeting of German Council
of States in Stuttgart, announcing transfer of
functions from US Zone's council to the Bi-
zonal Economics Administration in Frankfurt.
Meaning of Six-Power Agreement, page 21.
Article by Jobn Elliott, adviser to director,
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, ana-
lyzing results of meeting of representatives
in London from the United States, Great Bri-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and handling of

tain, France and the Benelux countries in
drafting a program for developing a tederal
government in Germany.

Bad Kissingen’s Handicaft and Trade Exhibi-
tion, page 23. Pictorial feature.

Key MG Personnel, page 27. Revised roster.

No. 139 — July 13, 1948 — 32 pages

White Plague, page 3. Resume of special
OMGUS report on tuberculosis in US Zone.
Police Teletype System in Hesse, page 7. Ar-
ticle by William D. Stewart, deputy chief,
Public Information Office, OMG Hesse, des-
cribing warming and information communica-
tions network in state and with other German
states.

Justice Case, page 11. Part 2 in series.
Marshall Plan — Course of Law, pages 16-17.
Pictorial feature and translation of text trom
Heute magazine.

US Group to Plan for Tripartite MG, page 19.
Announcement ot format.on of US committee
to plan with British and French groups for
MG reorganization.

Reform Brings out Consumer Goods, page 21.
Survey by Reports and Statistics Branch, Frank-
furt Liaison Office, Manpower Division,
OMGUS, illustrating effect of currency reform:
Housing Construction Stili Lags, page 23. Di-
gest from special OMGUS report, prepared by
Manpower Division, OMGUS, surveying re-
construction in US Zone.

OMGUS Rejects Soviet Charges, page 31.
Statement by Col. Frank L. Howley, director,
OMG Berlin Sector, reviewing breakdown of
quadripartite action in Allied Kommandatura
in Bezlin.

No. 140 — July 27, 1948 — 24 pages

Mail Out of Berlin, page 3. Article by Richard
J. Elwood, reports otlicer, Communications
Group, Office of the Economic Adviser, OMGUS,
describing use of airlit to move Ge.man
mail to and from Berlin.

Plan Submitted for Federal Setup, page 5.
Summary of three documents handed ministers
president of states of western Germany by
military governors of Western Powers, con-
cerning constituent assembly, boundaries and
German-Allied Relations.

Money Reform Clears Way for New Start,
page 7. Selection of editorials from German
press.

Town Meetings, pages 12-13. Pictorial feature
on public forums in Wuerttemberg-Baden.
The Real Issue in Berlin Crisis, page 14. State-
mcnt by Maj. Gen. William J. Donovan (re-
tired), wartime director of Office of Strategic
Services, following inspection trip to Berlin.
Justice Case, page 15. Part 3 in series.

No. 141 — Aug. 10, 1948 — 24 pages

The Ruhr - Vilal to Recovery, page 3. Text of
radio address by Robert R. Estill, chairman,
US/UK Coal Control Group, Essen.

Largest Information Center Opened, page 6.
Summary of ceremony in Munich.
Germany's Role in European Recovery, page 7.
Statement by William H. Draper Jr., under
secretary of the army, US Department of the
Army, during Berlin visit.

Medical Mission in Germany, page 12. Article
by Henry S. Matteo, assistent editor, Informa-
tion Bulletin, review activities of group,
arranged by the Unitarian Service Committee,
to advise German doctors and medical institu-
tions on latest practices.

Justice Case, page 17. Part 4 in series.

No. 142 — Aug. 24, 1948 — 24 pages

Bizonia's Trade Agreement Program, page 3.
Article by Ethel Dietrich, deputy for trade
negotiations, JEIA, describing program.
BICO Compiles List of Abbreviations, page 8.
Additional to list in issue No. 128.

Justice Case, page 9. Part 5 in series.
Visiting American Artists, page 12. Article by
John Evarts, mustic officer, Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, OMGUS, reviewing
concert tours.

Breakup of the Allied Kommandatura, page 19.
Excerpt of OMGUS report, reviewing difficul-
ties in quadripartite control body for Berlin.

28

No. 143 — Sept. 7, 1948 — 32 pages

Civilianization of Military Government Courts,
Page 3. Article written by H. Warner Waid,
editor, Information Bulletin, describing re-
placement of former provost-type courts by
new judicial system.

Soviet Blockade Fails to Subjugate Berlin,
pages 8-9. Pictorial feature with statement by

Col. Frank L. Howley, commandant of US
Sector of Berlin.
From Test Tube to Potato Patch, page 11.

Article by Elise F. Hawtin, Public Inlo:mation
Office, Office of US Chairman, Bipartite Con-
trol Office, reviewing effort to apply farming
methods developed by research in practise on
farms.

The Bizonal Economic Administration, page 15.
Digest of OMGUS report prepared by Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS, explaining
functions and operations of German counter-
part to Bipartite Control Office.

Quadripartite Activity on Education in Ger-
many, page 19. Review prepared by Education
and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS.
EUCOM Special Services Presents:, page 29.
Pictorial feature on entertainment programs.

No. 144 — Sept. 21, 1948 — 32 pages

More and Better Food for Bizonal Germans,
page 3. Article by Elise F. Hawtin, Public
Information Otfice, Office of US Chairman,
BICO describing greater imports and higher
rations.

They Seek the Missing, page 8. Article by
John A. Biggs, deputy public information offi-
cer, OMG Bavaria, describing operation of
Search Service in Munich, center for hunt for
missing soldiers and relations.

MG and Geimany’s Youth, page 12. Summary
of youth activities, particularly US Army's
GYA work, excerpted from OMGUS report
prepared by Education and Cultural Relations
Division.

A Day with a German Housewife, page 16-17.
Pictorial feature and translation of Heute
magazine.

The St. Erik's Trade Fair, page 22. Pictorial
feature by Al Byers, JEIA, on German exhibits
at fair in Stockholm, Sweden.

15 German Newsmen Tour United States, page
25. Summary of group's attendance to Columbia
University American Press Institute and field
trips. 5
OMGUS Gives JRSO the Go-Ahead, page 26.
Summary of OMGUS directive defining opera-
tion of Jewish Restitution Successor Organi-
zation.

No. 145 — Oct. 5, 1948 — 32 pages

Today’s Women of Germany, page 2. Portion
of report by Mrs. Chase Going Woodhouse,
former member of Congress from Connecticut
and visiting consultant on women’s affairs,
OMGUS, following extensive survey tour of
Germany. (Other portion of report presented
program for setting up women’s affairs activi-
ties in OMGUS).

Constitution-Making at Bonn, page 7. Article
by John Elliott, chief, Political Activities
Branch, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS,
reviewing and analyzing work of Ger-
man Parliamentary Council, meeting in Bonn
to draft the Basic Law for Germany.

Berlin Events Arouse Wide Comment, page 11.
Selection of editorials from German press.
Soviet Order Tightens Press Shackles, page 14.
Summary of OMGUS broadcast reviewing
effect to recent Soviet orders.

The Big Red I Takes 10, pages 16-17. Pictorial
feature on US Army's ist Division maneuvers.
Impact of Currency Reform, page 18. Review
of first six months of German economy after
currency reform.

Agricultural Fair, page 25. Pictorial feature of
German's first major postwar exhibit in Frank-
furt.

US Zone Germans Optimistic on Future, page
26. Summary of public opinion survey by In-
fomration Services Division, OMGUS.
Medical Supplies by Airlift, page 27. Article
by Major Richmond S. Paine, chief, Public
Health Branch, OMG Berlin Sector, on main-
taining medical services in Berlin during
blockade,

MARCH 1953

--- Page 32 ---
No. 146 — Oct. 9, 1948 — 48 pages

Change in Overseas Salaries Announced, page
2. Text, of Executive Order 10,000 discontinuing
certain additional pay to American employees.
Berlin Divided, page 3. Article by Louis Glase
retiring chief, Civil Administration and Politi-
cal Alfairs Branch, OMG Berlin Sector, re-
viewing development of political schism in
Berlin.

Denazification Nears Completion, page 7.
Article by Theo E. Hall, chief, Public Safety
Branch, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS,
reviewing denazification operations in US
Zone.

Youth Organizations, page 11. Summary of
OMGUS report repared by Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, OMGUS, reviewing
activities of organizations recognized by Mili-
tary Government.

RIAS, page 15. Review of development and
operations of the US-operated radio station in
Berlin.

Rebuilt Bridge at Ulm Dedicated, page 29.
Summary of activities opening span over
Danube River.

Industry Continues to Rise in August, page 31.
Economic review.

The Berlin Crisis, page 32. Text of the ‘White
Paper’ issued by the US Government concern-
ing the Moscow discussions and the Soviet
Blockade of Berlin.

US Note to UN Security Council, page 43.
Text of request for investigation of Berlin
situation.

No. 147 — Nov. 2, 1948 — 32 pages

Nutritional Survey, page 3. Review of three-
zone survey concerning health of populations.
Immigration, page 5. Article by James S. Sut-
terlin, US vice consul, Frankfurt, on opening
of entry into United States.

Der Monat (The Month), page 7. Article written
by H. Warner Waid, editor Information
Bulletin, describing inauguration of US-publi-
shed magazine in German as an international
review of politics and culture.

Bavarian Public Forum, page 9. Review of
community discussions with American experts
on panels.

West Berlin Enjoys Better Conditions with
Airlift, page 10. Text of letter by Beilin in-
dustrial plant executive.

Grassroots Information Service, page 11. Article
written by H. Warner Waid, editor, Information
Bulletin, describing how MGO's get information
to communities through local official gazette.
The William W. Dawson Memorial Fund, page
12.?Announcement of scholarship plan in me-
mory of early MG director.

US Returns German Art, page 15. Article by
Richard F. Howard, deputy chief for cultural
restitution (Monuments, Fine Art and Archives),
Reparations and Restitution Branch, Property
Divsion, OMGUS, describing return to Ger-
many of valuable paintings stored in United
States after war for safe-keeping.

Freight-Car Building Plan Inaugurated in Bi-
zone, page 19. Summary of delivery of first
railroad cars build with MG financial assistance.
Key MG Personnel, page 25. Revised roster.

No. 148 — Nov. 16, 1948 — 32 pages

Allied Controls in Austria, page 3. Article by
A. Sims, executive secretary, Committee on
Tripartite MG Organization, describing Allied
Commission for Austria as model for setting
up three-power high commission for Germany.
No Easy Road to Lasting Peace, page 7. Address
by General Lucius D. Clay, commander-in-
chief, European Command, and US military
governor for Germany, at dinner of Alfred
E. Smith Memorial Association in New York,
reviewing US operations in Germany.
Resistance Preferred by Berliners, page 10.
Summary of opinion survey by Information Ser-
vices Divison, OMGUS.

By Collaboration of Free People... We Build
a Lasting Peace, page 11. Address by Mrs.
Eleanor Roosevelt, US delegate to the United
Nations, at meeting in Stuttgart, sponsored by
the League of Women physicians of Wuert-
temberg-Baden.

A Determined is Surest Hope for Peace, page
13, Text of radio address in Berlin by Dr.

MARCH 1953

Philip Jessup, deputy US delegate to United
Nations Security Council.

Frozen Food Plant, pages 16-17. Pictorial feature
by Al Byers, JEIA pnotographer.

Amerika Haus, page 19. Review of US Infor-
mation Centers in Germany.

Bizone's Participation in ECA Program, page
22, Statement by Paul G. Hoffman, economic
cooperation administrator, at press conference
in Berlin.

Berlin Labor in the Blockade, page 25. Article
by G. N. McClusky, chief, Manpower Branch,
OMG Berlin Sector.

Repatriation, page 29. Extract from OMGUS
report prepared by Manpower Division,
OMGUS, and additional matesial from Consular
Branch, Office of Director of Political Affairs,
OMGUS, describing assistance to US citizens
in Germany.

No. 149 — Nov. 30, 1948 — 32 pages

Training for Production, page 3. Article by
Don L. Synder, Manpower Group, BICO, des-
cribing program tor on-the-job training and
personnel administration for better labor rela-
tions.

Berlin Votes, page 5. Article by Dr. Harry
Franklin, chief, Civil Administration and Poli-
tical Atlairs Branch, OMG Berlin Sector, giving
preview of municipal election in Berlin.
Student Exchange, page 9. Article by Frank
G. Banta, chiei, Cultural Exchange Section,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
OMGUS, presenting first review of develop-
ment of exchange program for German students
to study in the United States.

Economic Situation can Develop in_a Healthy
Manner, page 13. Statement by General Sir
Briap Robeitson, British military governor, at
press conference in Frankturt.

Scientific Harvest Surveys, page 16. Article
by Elise F. Hawtin, BICO Section, Public In-
formation Office (Frankfurt), OMGUS, des-
cribing method of field sampling to determine
harvest yields.

Armed Forces Assistance to German Youth
Activities, page 19. Article by Lt. Col. Robert
C. Hall, chiei, German Youth Activities Sec-
tion, Operations, Plans, Organization and
Training Division, Headquarters EUCOM, ex-
planing EUCOM circular.

Berlin Medical Academy, page 23. Article by
Major Richmond S. Paine, chief, Public Health
Branch, OMG Berlin Sector, describing initia-
tion and development of professional group.
US Election Resuits Draw Favorable Comment,
page 27. Selection of editorials from German
Press concerning Presidential election in the
United States.

Bizone Economy at Postwar High, page 30.
Economic review by BICO for September.
Coal-Iron-Steel Reorganization -Pian, page 31
Text of statement by Bipartite Board to Ger-
man industrial representatives.

No. 150 — Dec. 14, 1948 — 32 pages

Four Christmases, page 3. Historical feature
by Marjorie A. Yahraes, staff writer, Infor-
mation Bulletin, comparing conditions at Christ-
mas time in 1648, 1748, 1848 and 1948, each
following period of severe German strife.

US Drama in Germany, page 5. Article by
Ingtid Youngren, Public Information Office,
OMGUS, reviewing prominence of American
plays being presented in German theaters.
Rembrandt Exhibition, page 9. Article by Theo-
dore A. Heinrich, chief, Monuments, Fine Art
and Archives Section, OMG Hesse, describing
exhibition of Rembrandt paintings at Wies-
baden Collecting Point.

Schornsteinfeger Club (Chimney Sweep Club),
page 13. Review of activities of German-Amer-
ican welfare organization in Berlin.

Youth Helps Youth, page 15. Article by Mar-
garet Sorenson, educational adviser, GYA Sec-
tion, “Operations, Plans, Organization and
Training Division, EUCOM Headquarters, des-
cribing GYA project of encouraging contact
and liaison between German and American
young clubs.

American, German Youth Cooperate in Nurem-
berg, pages 16-17. Pictorial feature by Hans
Lamm, American OCCWC employee, descri-
bing activities of club.

29

JEIA Plan Permits Freer Trade, page 18. State-
ment by William John Logan, director general,
JEIA, describing simplilication of required
forms for foreign trade.

Hotels for Tourists and Businessmen, page 21.
Article prepared by Hyman Charniak, chief,
JEIA Section, Public Information — Office
(Frankfurt), OMGUS, describing accomodations
provided visiting businessmen.

MGO's Daily Work, page 25. Transcript of
AFN Stuttgart program, illustrating work of
Military Government officers.

Freedom of the Press, page 27. Translation of
program prepared by the Information Ser-
vices Divison, OMG Hesse, over Radio Frank-
furt, explaining recent liberation of press con-
trols and elimination of licensing require-
ments.

No. 151 — Dec. 28, 1948 — 24 pages

Business Recovery in Bizonal Area, page 2.
Excerpt from BICO report.

Feeding Blockaded Geimans in Berlin, page 3.
Article by Leon J. Steck, chief, Food and
Agriculture Section, OMG Berlin Sector, des-
cribing operation of flying food supplies into
city and effort to encourage home gardens.
German Imports, page 5. Article by John
French, chief, Import Branch, JEIA, reviewing
import operations.

Education by Radio, page 9. Article by Harry
A. Jacobs, reports and information otticer,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
OMGUS, describing education and instruction
programs on German radio stations since in-
auguration by Radio Branch, Office of Infor-
mation Control, OMGUS, in 1945.

Berlin Choooses Freedom, page 13. Article by
Dr. Harry L. Franklin, chief Civil Administra-
tion and Political Affairs Branch, OMG Ber-
lin Sector, reviewing and analyzing results
of Berlin municipal elections.

Nuremberg Girls Clubs, page 15. Article pre-
pared by Mrs. Mark Selsor, wife of US Army
officer, describing activities of GYA group.
Bizone Budget at DM 408,000,000, page 22.
Excerpt from BICO report listing revenues
and expenditures of German bizonal organi-
zation as less than that of ten of 11 states in
area.

No. 152 — Jan. 11, 1949 — 32 pages

Outlook is Bright for 1949, page 2. Statement
by General Lucius D. Clay, US military go-
vernor, for radio broadcast.

Operation Better Kids, page 3. Article by
Lawrence G. Derthick, chief, Education Branch,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
OMG Bavaria, reviewing progress in eliminat-
ing Germany's traditional two-track system in
education and in instituting certain school
reforms.

Bank Deutscher Laender, page 5. Excerpt from
Military Governor's Report, describing organi-
zation and functions of the central bank of
Germany.

From the EC to Washington via Telephoto,
page 8. Pictorial feature of transmission of
photographs by US Army's Signal Corps.
Bizonal Communications - a Year of Progress,
page 9. Article by Elise F. Hawtin, BICO Sec-
tion, Public Information Office (Frankfurt),
OMGUS, reviewing progress in improving
postal, telephone and telegraph services under
BICO ‘supervision.

German Politicians Observe US Elections, page
13. Article by Louis Kelly, special escort offi-
cer, Civil Administration’ Division, OMGUS,
describing experiences and reactions of four
German political leaders vis! the United
States under the exchange program to observe
the Presidential election.

Property Restitution, page 15. Article by Ed-
mund H. Schwenk, attorney, Legal Division,
OMGUS, reviewing operations in restoring
property to persons and groups persecuted
during Nazi regime.

Christmas Parties, page 16. Article written by
Marjorie A. Yahraes, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, tounding up accounts of gifts and
good will extended by Americans to under-
privileged Germans.

Golden Gloves, page 20. Article written by
Henry S. Matteo assistant editor, Information
Bulletin, describing boxing tournaments spon-

5

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
sored by GYA among German youths on model
of American Golden Gloves tournaments.
Basis for Press Laws, page 22. Translation of
OMGUS broadcast over German radio stations,
explaining liberalizing of press controls.

No. 153 — Jan. 25, 1949 — 32 pages

Bizone's Economic Status Encouraging, page 2.
Statement by BICO reviewing 1948 and pre-
viewing 1949.

Democracy and the Occupation, page 3. Article
by Charles M. LaFolette, retiring director, OMG
Wuerttemberg-Baden, reviewing American re-
spect for democratic practice and desire to
encourage Germans to try them.

Ruhr Authority, page 5. Article written by H.
Warner Waid, editor Information Bulletin,
summarizing documents and statements setting
up international control organization.

Home Economics for Farm Women, page 7.
Article by Elise F. Hawtin, BICO Branch,
Public Information Office (Frankfurt), OMGUS,
describing effort to raise German education
opportunities and living conditions to Ameri-
can standards.

Industrial Activity for November,
Economic review covering November.
Finance Adviser Ends MG Service, page 10.
Summary of review by Jack Bennett, retiring

page 9.

finance adviser, on financial progress during.

occupation.

Forests of the Bizone, page 11, Article by
Joseph C. Kircher, chief Forestry and Timber
Branch, BICO, reviewing postwar conservation.
Extension Service for Hessian Farmers, page
15. Article by Dr. Ira O. Schaub, visiting con-
sultant, Food, Agriculture and Forestry Branch,
OMG Hesse, on necessity of applying research
knowledge to improving farm operations.
Bremerhaven Fishing Industry, page 16. Article
prepared by Andrew J. Nichols, food specialist,
Civil Resources Division, OMG Bremen, sur-
veying industry.

Student Self-Help, page 19. Article prepared
by Eberhard Krauss, chairman, General Stu-
dents’ Representation, describing efforts of
students to earn money to continue their
education.

Ruhr Agreement Draws Conilicting Comment,
page 21. Selection of editorials from German
press.

Hope and Co. Bring Yule Cheer to EC, page
31. Pictorial feature of entertaining tour of
American installations by Comedian Bob Hope,
Actress Jinx Falkenberg and Composer Irving
Berlin.

No. 154 — Feb. 8, 1949 — 32 pages

High Price Bubble Bursts; German Economy
Benefits, page 2. Feature by William R, Kar-
steter, historian, OMG Hesse, reviewing typi-
cal case of Christmas spending spree and
resulting empty pocketbook.

Seeing for Themselves, page 3. Article by
Dr. Edward H. Litchfield, director, Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS, reviewing
governmental affairs exchange program.

DM Shows Strength, page 5. Study by BICO
officials comparing’ German currency with
Swiss franc.

Review of ERP Aid, page 7. Statement by N.
H. Collison, deputy chief, Special ECA Mission
to Western Germany.

Operation ,,Snowdrop Able", pages 8-9. Pic-
torial feature of US Army maneuver.

US Notes on PW's, page 11. Summary of three
notes questioning Soviet Union concerning
missing German prisoners of war.

Open Forum Survey, page 13. Summary of
survey by OMG Bavaria of some 500 town
meetings held in Bavaria in first half of
December. *

Bavaria's Vacationland, page 15. Article writ-
ten by H. Warner Waid, editor, Information
Bulletin, describing tourist possibilities and
postwar recovery as illustrated by JEIA-spon-
sored tour in southern Germany.

Germany's New Press, page 19. Digest of
special OMGUS report prepared by Information
Services Division, OMGUS, reviewing devel-
opment in US Zone.
Germans Get ,,Free’' Radio, page 29. Summary
of ceremonies marking MG's relinquishing
direct control to German organizations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

No. 155 — Feb. 22, 1949 — 32 pages

Achievements, page 5. Statement by General
Lucius D. Clay, US military governor, re-
viewing accomplishments of Military Govern-
ment during 1948.

Out of the Rubble, page 5. Article by Dr.
Alonzo G, Grave, director, Education and
Cultural Relations Division OMGUS, de-
scribing program of reorientation in Germany.
Girls Scouts, page 7, Summary of survey made
for the Group Activities Branch, Education and
Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, by Miss
Gertrude Bruns, visiting consultant from the
International Council of Air Scouts and Girl
Guides.

Operation Vittles, page 9. Announcement of
the publication of a cookbook by the Wo-
men’s Club to raise funds for welfare activities
in Berlin.

Germans Pay Import Costs in D-Marks, page
10. Summary of BICO procedure.

Greater Home Rule, page 11. Address by
Murray D. Van Wagoner, director OMG Bava-
ria, advising city governments to handle their
affairs speedily and efficiently.

Public Opinion, page 15. Article by Albert
C. Schweizer, chief, Civil Administration Divi-
sion, OMG Bavaria, advocating freedom of
thought’ in Bavaria.
Revival of German Nationalism Seen, page 18.
Excerpt from the Military Governor's Monthly
Report.

Industrial Activity for December,
Economic review.

Leuschner House, page 27. Article prepared by
J. H. Genung, deputy chief, Manpower Branch,
OMG Berlin Sector, describing center to democ-
ratic labor unions of Berlin. :

page 23.

No. 156 — March 8, 1949 — 24 pages

OMGUS Personnel, page 3. Article by Paul
G. Lutzeier, chief, Employee Utilization Sec-
tion, Office of Personnel Officer, OMGUS,
presenting composite picture of the American
working for Military Government.

New York Display, page 5. Preview of Military
Government German Industrial Exhibition in
New York.

Civil Service Law Issued for Bizone, page 8.
Summary of reforms and democratic practices
provided for public servants in the Bizonal
Area.

Jewish Communities, page 9. Article by Rabbi
Simon G. Kramer, Jewish liaison representa-
tive, Education and Cultural Relations Division,
OMGUS, reviewing postwar revival in US Zone.
Missing UN Children Hunt Intensified, page 11.
Summary of OMGUS directive.

Free University of Berlin, page 13. Article by
Howard W. Johnston, chief for higher Educa-
tion, Education and Cultural Relations Branch,
OMG Berlin Sector, describing inauguration,
development and operations of the democratic
institution in western Berlin.

Collection Shortage Brings Allotment Cut,
page 19. Summary of BICO announcement penal-
izing delinquent states.

No. 157 — March 22, 1949 — 24 pages

Political Picture, page 3. Article by John Elliott
chief, Political Activities Branch, Civil Ad-
ministration Division, OMGUS, | previewing
first German constitutional election.
Refugee Handicraft, page 7. Article by John
A. Biggs, Public Information Office, OMG Ba-
varia, describing display of work of group of
refugees in southern Bavarian community.
Hindemith, page 11. Article prepared by John
Evarts, music officer, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, OMGUS, and Carlos D.
Moseley, music officer, OMG Bavaria, on first
postwar tour by former German composer.
Postage Stamps, page 13. Article by Richard
Elwood, reports officer, Communications Group,
Office of the Economics Adviser, OMGUS,
reviewing the various postage stamps issued
in Germany since the war.

Bonn Council Advised on Basic Law Draft,
page 18. Parliamentary Council given docu-
ments expressing three-power views on current
text for Basic Law and draft electoral law.
Civil Service Reform Draws Varied Reactions,
page 19, Selection of editorials from German
press.

30

Berlin, page 21. Reprinted from Saturday Re-
view of Literature, describing visit to city.

No. 158 — April 5, 1949 — 36 pages

STEG, page 3. Article by James C. Cunning-
ham, chief, OMGSTEG Branch, Commerce and
Industry Group, BICO, reviewing process of
transfer of captured and surplus materials to
German organization.

Battle against TB, page 5. Article by Lt. Col.
C. H. Moseley, chief, Public Health Branch,
OMG Hesse, describing extensive project of
the Danish Red Cross in giving the BCG test
to German children as precaution against
tuberculosis.

Three Years of GYA, page 7. Article by Lt.
Col. Robert C. Hall, chief, GYA Section,
Operations, Plans, Organization and Training
Division, EUCOM Headquarters, reviewing
Armed Forces assistance to German youth.
Report on Germany, page 9. Part 1 of four in-
stallments giving extracts from annual report
of the US secretary of the army in reviewing
the occupation in Germany during 1948.
Bizone Employment at Postwar High, page 11.
Excerpt from Military Governor's Monthly
Report. .
Every Child as ,,Human Being’ Stressed, page
12, Summary of statement by Martha Eliot,
associate chief, US Children’s Bureau, after
conference in Germany.

Key MG Personnel, page 13. Revised roster.
Leipzig Loses Former Publishing Prestige under
Soviet Control, page 23. Summary of survey
by Publications Branch, Information Services
Division, OMGUS.

Europenan Recovery Program, page 25. Extract
from report by Paul G. Hoffman, economic
cooperation administrator, in country study
of Germany.

Basic Law Draft Stirs Editorial Discussion,
page 29. Selection of editorials from German
press.

Tourists form Mid-West See Germany, page 31.
Summary of group of American tourists ob-
serving ERP operations in Bavaria.

No. 159 — April 19, 1949 — 32 pages
Democratizing Textbooks, page 3. Article by
Dr. Alonzo G. Grace, director, Education and
Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, describ-
ing efforts to eliminate nationalistic and
militaristic tendencies from school books.
Hard Coal Industry Continues Climb, page 6.
Summary of review by Combined Coal Con-
trol Group. ;

Visit to United States, page 7. Condensed
translation of report by Mayor Ernst Reuter
to the City Assembly of Berlin from 10-day
visit as guest of United States Conference of
Mayors in Washington.

Inland Shipping, page 9. Article by Fred W.
Welty, BICO Section, Public Information
Office (Frankfurt), OMGUS, reviewing postwar
recovery of waterway transportation.

MGO Teaches Democracy, page 13. Article by
Dr. Harold J. Clem, democratization coordina-
tor, Civil Administration Division, OMG
Bavaria, reviewing activities of Military Go-
vernment officers to help German citizens.
New Clothes from Old, page 15. Article by
Margaret Sorenson, adviser for womens and
girls activities, GYA Section, Operations, Plans,
Organization and Training Division, EUCOM,
describing GYA girls handicraft contest.
Operations ,,Essayons", pages 16-17. Pictorial
feature of US Army's bridge-building maneuver.
Report on Germany, page 19. Part 2 in series.
Airbridge to Health, page 25. Review of pro-
ject for flying German children out of Soviet-
blockaded Berlin to homes in western Germany.
OMGUS Directive Clarifies Licensing Proce-
dures, page 30. Text of directive defining re-
forms in German traditional practice of re-
stricting trades and professions.

No. 160 — May 3, 1949 — 48 pages

Army Day Observance in Germany, page 2. Pic-
torial feature.

New Status for Women, page 3. Article by
Elizabeth G. Holt, senior education specialist,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
OMGUS, reviewing progress in improving con-
ditions for women in Germany.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 34 ---
Occupation Statute, page 5. Translation ‘of
OMGUS broadcast over German radios sum-
marizing obligations and responsibilities.
Industrial Activities for March, page 8. Econo-
mic Review.

Reparation Revision, page 7. Summary of three-
power agreement to reduce dismantling of Ger-
man industrial plants.

Prohibited. Limited Industry is Defined, page
7. Text of agreement lifting some of previous
testrictions.

Babie Ruth Club, page 9. Special feature by
Caroline Camp Leiser, describing popularity
of the American game of baseball and the
skill of a club of German boys in Berlin.
Ludwigsburg Project, page 11. Article illustrat-
ing work of local MG officer in helping small
industries to get started.

Index, page 13. List of articles published in
the Information Bulletin, from 1945 to 1948.
Boys Town Observes Second Anniversary,
page 36. Pictorial feature of US soldier's pro-
ject near Bad Vilbel, Hesse (see Hand Built
City, issue No. 117).

Report on Germany, page 37. Part 3 in series.

No. 161 — May 17, 1949 — 48 pages
President Truman Lauds General Clay's Work
page 2. Text of statement. :
Institute of Public Affairs, page 3. Article by
Dr. Kurt Glaser, liaison representative, Insti-
tute of Public Affairs, Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, describing purpose, devel-
opment and operations of institute in Frank-
rurt,

Formula for Peace, page 5. Article by Maj.
Gen. James P. Hodges, US commissioner,
Military Security Board, describing purpose,
development and operations of the Military
Security Board.

New Horisons in Education, page 7. Article
by Dr. Milton E. Muelder, deputy director,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
OMGUS, summarizing discussions and actions
at International Conference on Comparative
Education at Chiemsee, Bavaria.

Employee Utilization, page 9. Article by Paul
G. Lutzeier, chief, Employee Utilization Section,
Office of the Personnel Officer, OMGUS,
explaining program of personnel management
for selection persons for right jobs in Military
Government.

Insult Law, page 11. Article written by H.
Warner Waid, editor, Information Bulletin,
describing historical background and effect of
1931 decree for shielding government officials
from uncomplimentary remarks, and some post-
war examples of resort to the decree.
_Civil Service Reform, page 13. Address by
Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN, director, OMG
Bremen, giving assurance of democratic op-
portunity for all public servants.

Practicing Democracy, page 15. Article by
Willi Birkelbach, German youth leader and
cultural exchange student to the United States,
analyzing reactions to US education and point-
ing to certain advantages for German schools.
Jedermann Program, page 17. Article written
by Fred’ W. Welty, BICO Section, Public In-
formation Office (Frankfurt), OMGUS, de-
scribing program to place shoes and clothing
within the means of every man in Germany.
Polish DP’s Return Home, page 20. Pictorial
feature of departure of group being repatriated
to homeland.

High Commission Agreement, page 21. Sum-
mary of the basic principles for the merger of
the three zones of western Germany.
Operations Showers, pages 24-25. Pictorial
feature of US Army maneuver.

Text of Occupation Statute for West Germany,
page 30.

Reaction to Occupation Statute Becomes Less
Critical, page 31. Selection of editorials from
German press.
Report on Germany, page 33. Part 4 in series.
Potsdam to Bonn, page 38. Chronological re-
cord of postwar political development in Ger-
man.

Bonn as Capital, page 43. Description of Rhine
valley city chosen by the Parliamentary Coun-
cil.

No. 162 — May 31, 1949 — 32 pages
Nuremberg Trials, page 3. Article by Brig.
Gen. Telford Taylor, chief of counsel for war

MARCH 1953

crimes, OCCWC, OMGUS, reviewing the war
crimes trials at Nuremberg.

“Community Survey, page 7. Article by Nels

Anderson, chief, Labor Information and Orien-
tation Branch, Manpower Division, OMGUS,
giving preview of the Middletown-type survey
being conducted at Darmstadt.

US Policy on Germany, page 9. Statement by
Dean Acheson, US secretary of state. :
Progress in Hesse, page 11. Review by Dr.
James R. Newman, director OMG Hesse.
Nadolny Activities Attract Attention, page 12.
Excerpt from Military Governor's Monthly
Report, describing trip of former German am-
bassador in Moscow, to western Germany.
Efficiency Rating, page 13. Article by Peter
F, Szluk, chief, Training Section, Office of
Personnel Officer, OMGUS, outlining basic
principles of procedure.

Business Situation in the Bizonal Area, page
14, Bipartite economic review.

Preparing for Citizenship, page 15. Condensed
text of address by Murray D. Van Wagoner,
director, OMG Bavaria, outlining basic training.
Training Youth Leaders, page 17. Article by
Dr. Elizabeth P. Lam, chief, Leadership Training
Section, Comunity Education Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, de-
scribing work in reorientation and training.
Blockade-Lifting Brings Relief and Skepticism,
page 25. Selection of editorials from German
press.

Bavarian Opposition to Bonn Assailed, page
26. Selection of editorials from German press.
Index, page 29. Correction to list in issue
No. 160.

No. 163 — June 14, 1949 — 36 pages

Establishing the Position of United States High
Commission for Germany, page 2. Text of
executive order by President Truman (addition
in issue No. 182). .

School Reform in Hesse, page 3. Article by
Dr. James R. Newman, director, OMG Hesse.
Organization for European Economic Co-
operation, page 7. Article by Major Gordon
L. C. Scott, US ‘secretary, Bipartite Secretariat,
describing. Germany's role in OEEC composed
of European nations participating in Marshall
Plan.

The Basic Law, page 9. Summary prepared by
the Public Information Office, OMGUS, of
the new German statute.

Soapbox Derby, page 11. Article by Joseph
C. Lingle, information officer, GYA Section,
organization, Program, Operations and Training
Division, EUCOM, and William Martin, Field
Relations Division, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden,
describing GYA program by US Army of young
German soapbox racers.

Foreign Visitors, page 13. Explanation of
JEIA plan to aid businessmen visiting Ger-
many.

Glass and Ceramics, page 15. Article by Mar-
jorie A. Yahraes, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, presenting extensive review of in-
dustry.

Commissioner McCloy, page 25. Reprint from
Newsweek magazine presenting biographical
sketch of new high commissioner.

Basic Law, page 29. Authorized Anglo-American
translation of full text of German statute.

No. 164 — June 28, 1949 — 36 pages

Civilian Personnel News Letter, page 2. An-
nounceinent of question-answer circular by
Office of Personnel Officer, OMGUS.
Employee Training, page 3. Article by Peter
F. Szluk, chief, Training Section, Office of
the Personnel ‘Officer, OMGUS, describing
service.

American Labor Aids Berlin Strikers, page 6.
Summary of assistance.

Inter-Faith Councils, page 7. Article by Carl
F, Zietlow, liaison representative in OMGUS,
International Council of Christians and Jews,
describing purpose and progress of organization
in Germany.

Nurnberg (Nuremberg), page 9. Article by
Stuart Schulberg, chief, documentary Film Unit,
Information Services Division, OMGUS, de-
scribing film on International Military Tri-
bunal trial of top Nazi leaders and German
reactions.

‘31

Complaint Office, page 13. Article by Dennis
DeMartin, complaint officer, Control Office,
OMGUS, describing ,,trouble-shooting" .ope-
ration.

Progress in GYA, page 15. Article by Margaret
Sorenson, GYA Section, Organization, Pro-
gram, Operations and Training Division,
EUCOM, reviewing survey tour of activities
in US Zone.

Land Reform, page 17. Digest of OMGUS
broadcast concerning resettlement program.
Air Force's Boys Town, pages 18-19. Pictorial
feature of GYA project at Oberpaffenhofen.
Open-Forum Seminar, page 21. Summary of
German-American conference on town-hall
meetings in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

No. 165 — July 12, 1949 — 32 pages

High Schools Resistent to Democracy, page 2.
Summary of report by Dr. Arno Jewett, pro-
fessor of education at the University of Texas
and visiting consultant of the Education and
Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, after
three-month survey.

Radio in US Zone, page 3. Article by Ruby
A. Parson, deputy chief, Information Services
Division, OMGUS, reviewing postwar radio in
Germany.

Community Councils, page 7. Article by Dr.
Ralph E. Berry, deputy chief, Group Activities
Branch, Education and Cultural Relations Divi-
sion, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, describing
activities in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Trade Union Federation, page 9. Article by
Albert Berman, chief, Research and Analysis
Branch, Manpower Division, OMGUS, review-
ing progress in setting up organization in
western Germany.

School of Journalism, page 11. Article by
Ernest Langendorf, chief, Press Branch, In-
formation Services Division, OMG Bavaria,
describing program to improve German jour-
nalism.

Visual Arts, page 15, Article by William G.
Constable, curator of painting, Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, and visiting expert, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, de-
scribing effort being made to inject new ideas
and methods into activities of German art.
Navy's Role, page 17. Artixcle by Lt. Comdr.
L. J. Meads, USN, legal officer, US Naval
Advance Base, Bremerhaven, reviewing activi-
ties of US Navy in Germany.

Paris Conference, page 19. Condensed tran-
scription of press conference statement by
Dean Acheson, US secretary of state, review-
ing results of conference of Council of Foreign
Ministers in Paris.

Germany and the Foreign Ministers, page 20.
Digest of OMGUS radio broadcast describing
relation of foreign ministers’ communique to
German affairs.

High Commission Charter, page 21. Text of
tripartite document.

Tax Reform, page 25. Excerpt from Military
Governor's Monthly Report.

No. 166 — July 26, 1949 — 32 pages

Germany's Role in World Markets, page 2.
Excerpts from address by N. H. Collison,
ECA deputy special representation for western
Germany.

The Coming Generation, page 3. Condensed
text of radio speech by Dr. Alonzo G. Grace,
chief, Education and Cultural Relations Divi-
sion, OMGUS, reviewing services offered Ger-
man youth and their leaders.

Telling What ERP Does, page 5. Article by
Arthur Settel, deputy director, Public Infor-
mation Office (Frankfurt), OMGUS, describing
ERP publicity in Europe.

Education at Service Center, page 7. Article
by Lucile Allard, director, Education Service
Center, Education and Cultural Relations
Branch, OMG Berlin Sector, describing acti-
vities in center im Berlin.

German- Americans, page 9. Article by Capt.
Charles R. Jeffs, USN, director, OMG Bre-
men, describing composite German emigrant
in his contribution to American ideas.

Berlin Blood Bank, page 13. Article by Major
Richmond S. Paine, chief, Public Health
Branch, OMG Berlin Sector, describing in-
auguration of first such depository in Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Leather Industry, page 15. Article by Marjorie
A. Yahraes, staff writer, Information Bulieun,
Presenting postwar review of industry in
western Germany.

MG Property Division Dissolved,
Summary of OMGUS announcement.

No. 167 — Aug. 9, 1949 — 36 pages
Sacred Rights of Free Expression, page 2.
Broadcast by John J. McCloy, US high com-
missioner and military governor, at ceremony
for release of Radio Stuttgart to German
administration.

West Germany Votes, page 3. Article by John
Elliott, chief, Political Activities Branch, Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS, presenting
analytical preview of first parliamentary
election in Germany.

HICOG Organization, page 7, Text of HICOG
announcement presenting basic plan of Office
of the US High Commissioner.

Civilian Personnel Bulletin, page 11. Text of
HICOG memorandum outlining transter of
personnel and functions from OMGUS to
HICOG.

Labor's Legislative Program, page 13. Article
by Albert H. Berman, chief, Research and
Analysis Branch, Manpower Division, OMGUS,
reviewing proposals and programs of German
labor unions in relation to federal government.
Future Homemakers, page 15. Article prepared
by Dr. Katharine Holtzclaw, visiting con-
sultant from Division of Home Economics,
University of Georgia, outlining program for
encouraging study of home economic in Ger-
man scnools and assistance from American
groups.

Modern German Art, page 16. Article by Paul
Lutzeier, member of Prolog, German-American
art group in Berlin, on postwar Berlin artists,
with colored reproductions of their paintings.
Badges for Hessian Police Force, page 22.
Summary of introduction of idea in Hesse by
German police official after return from visit
to the United States.

Cost of Living, page 23. Excerpt from Military
Governor's Monthly Report, explaining newly
adopted system tor compiling index.

Electoral Law, page 32. Authorized translation
of text German statute.

No. 168 — Aug. 23, 1949 — 24 pages
Amerika Dienst (US Feature Service), page 3.
Article by Charles P. Arnot, chief, Editorial
Projection Branch, Information Services Divi-
sion, OMGUS, describing organization and
operation of US service to furnish American
material to German publications.

Berlin Rail Strike, page 7. Article by G. M.
McClusky, chief, Manpower Branch, OMG Ber-
lin Sector, reviewing and analyzing economic
and political struggle of municipal transit
workers against Communist domination.
Liquidation of OMGUS, page 8. Text of HICOG
memorandum.

Western Germany Has Very Greatly Progressed
Since the Surrender, page 9. Address by John
J. McCloy, US high commissioner and military
governor, over radio network in United States,
reviewing postwar conditions in Germany.
Highway Patrol, page 11. Article by Sgt. Frank
K. Spratt, Public Information Division, EUCOM
(Rear), Frankfurt, describing functions and
responsibilities of US Army's motorized
tratfic control unit in Germany.

Progress in Germany, page 15. Policy state-
ment issued by US Department of State, as
reprinted from Department of State Bulletin.

No. 169 — Sept. 6, 1949 — 32 pages

Federal Election Results, page 3. Article by
John Elliott, chief, Political Activities Branch,
Civil Administration Division, OMGUS, re-
viewing results of first parliamentary election
in Germany.

Future ERP Aid, page 5. Statement by Paul G.
Hoffman, economic cooparation administrator,
at press conference in Frankfurt.

Better Farming Techniques Urged, page 6. Sum-
mary of report by Food, Agriculture and
Forestry Group, BICO.

Germany's Refugees, page 7. Article by Dr.
Julius Isaac, visiting consultant, Civil Ad-
ministration Division, OGMUS, reviewing
problem of assimilation of refugees and ex-
pellees into Germany econmy.

page 23.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Haus Schwalbach, page 9. Article by Dr. Howard
W. Oxley, chief, Community Education Branch,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
OMG Hesse, describing work at community
activities training center near Wiesbaden.
Democratic Development, page 11. Article by
John P. Bradford, chief, Governmental and
Political Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMG Bavaria, reviewing MG assistance to
progress in Bavaria.

Economy in Farming, page 13. Article by Paul
F, Taggart, chief, Food and Agriculture Branch,
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, pointing out waste
in manpower, time and effort in German prac-
tice of farming.

Bavaria to Farm Civil Liberties Leagues, page
14, Summary of program.

Training Radio Talent, pages 16-17. Pictorial
story by Charles S. Lewis, chief, Radio Branch,
Information Services Division, OMGUS, review-
ing instruction and assistance given young
Germans by visiting experts from the United
States.

Denazification Summary, page 18. Excerpt of
OMGUS report, prepared by the Civil Admini-
stration Division covering 18-month period.
OMGUS Command Changes Hands, page 21.
Summary of transter of US command in Berlin
from Brig. Gen. Frank L. Howley to Maj. Gen.
Maxwell D. Taylor.

No. 170 — Sept. 20, 1949 — 28 pages

Education in Bavaria, page 2. Article prepared
by Education Branch, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, OMG Bavaria, reviewing
postwar program and efforts.

Berlin's Open Forum, page 6. Article by Dr.
Erfrid Heinecke, director, Open Forum, Der
Tagesspiegel (US-licensed independent daily
newspaper), reviewing inauguration and acti-
vities of town-hall-type meetings in Berlin.
British Reorganization Plans, page 9. State-
ment by General Sir Brian H. Robertson, British
military governor and high commissioner-
designate.

US Attitude on Bonn, page 11. Text of radio
interview by John J. McCloy, US high com-
missioner and military governor.

Black Watch, payes 14-15. Pictorial feature of
colorful ceremony “'Beating the Retreat” by
Scottish pipe and drum unit in Frankfurt.
Office of the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many, special insert. Organization chart.
Four Years in Berlin, page 16. Article by Brig.
Gen. Frank. L. Howley, director 1945-1949, OMG
Berlin Sector, taken from introduction of pu-
blished report.

Christian Democratic Union, page 19. Part 1
in series of six installments on Germany's
political parties, prepared by Political ‘Activi-
ties Branch, Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS.

No. 171 — Oct. 4, 1949 — 36 pages

Demise of Military Government, page 2. Text
of final OMGUS broadcast to German people,
briefly reviewing MG period of occupation.
Birth of a Republic, page 3. Article summariz-
ing activities for recognition of the German
Federal Republic.

New Ideas on Information, page 5. Article by
James G. Rogers, public information and
reports officer, Information Services Division,
OMGUS, reviewing MG activities in building
democratic press, publications, radio and
entertainment in Germany.

The German University, page 7. Article by Dr.
Alonzo G. Grace, director, Education and
Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, outlin-
ing program for greater assistance and ex-
change between German and American schools
of higher education.

Memorial Day for Persecutees, page 10. Sum-
mary of commemoration in Hesse, including
statement by Dr. James R. Newman, director,
OMG Hesse.

Appeal to Trade Unions, page 11. Address by
General Sir Brian H. Robertson, British high
commissioner, requesting sound’ and friendly
cooperation.

Land Reform Progress, page 13. Article by
Haynes Mahoney, deputy chief, Public Infor-
mation Branch, OMG Bavaria, describing cere-
mony inaugurating division of former German
army artillery range into farms.

32

Review of JEIA, page 15. Address by William
John Logan, retiring director general, JEIA,
summarizing progress of two and half years
in handling international trade for Germany.
Social Democratic Party, page 17. Part 2 in
series.

The Civil Servant, page 19. Translation of ar-
ticle in Die Neue Zeitung, US-publihed German-
language newspaper, describing undemocratic
features of German tradition and efforts to
eliminate them in interest of public advance-
ment.

Exercise Harvest, pages 20-23. Pictorial feature
of US Army maneuvers.

No. 172 — Nov. 1949 — 48 pages

Personnel Announcement, page 2. Summary of
announcement concerning employment require-
ments.

Message to HICOG Personnel, page 3. Address
by John J. McCloy, US hign commissioner, out-
lining obligations and privileges.

The German Economy, page 7. Article by Sir
Cicil Weir, retiring economic adviser to british
military governor, reviewing economic reco-
very in Germany, reprinted trom Monthly Re-
port of the Control Commission for Germany
(British Element).

Our German Publications, page 9. Article by
Aileen S. Miles, statf writer, Iniormation
Buuetin, describing official German-language
publications issued by the Information Services
Division, HICOG.

Postwar Pubushing, page 11. Article by Lau-
rence P. Dalcher, retiring chief, Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, OMGUS,
reviewing results of US-control activities,
Germany's Most Costly Adventure, page 14.
Feature translated from Heute, US-published
pictorial magazine, describing extensive public,
utility and civic improvements Germany could
have built with money spent in building
German armed torces tor World War Il.
Industrial Activity for July, page 16. Economic
review.

Germany's Liberal Groups, page 17. Part 3 in
series.

Political Aims at Bonn, page 19. Article,
written by Marjorie A. Yahraes, staff writer,
Information Buluetin, summarizing policy state-
ments of Christian Democratic Union and Social
Democratic Parties,

Textile and Clothing Industry, page 21. Article
by Marjorie A. Yahraes, staff writer,
Iniormation Bulletin, reviewing postwar devel-
opment of industry.

Key HiCOG Personnel, special insert. Roster of
top officials.

Special Services, page 27, Review of recrea-
tion and entertainment made available in
Germany by EUCOM Special Services.

Special III — Education and Cul-
tural Activities in Germany Today,
1949 Edition — Nov. 1, 1949 —

55 pages
Reprint of articles from Information
Bulletin, listed below with number of

original’ issue.

Operation Better Kids (No. 152).
Seeing for Themselves (No. 154).
Out of the Rubble (No. 155).

Free University of Berlin (No. 156).
Democratizing Textbooks (No. 159).
New Status for Women (No. 160).
Practicing Democracy (No. 161).
New Horizons in Education (No. 161).
Training Youth Leaders (No. 162).
School Reform in Hesse (No. 163).
School of Journalism (No. 165).

The Coming Generation (No. 166).
Education Service Center (No. 166).
Haus Schwalbach (No. 169).
Education in Bavaria (No. 170).
The German University (No. 171).

No. 173 — December 1949 — 77 pages

ECA Funds Aid Netherlands Recovery, inside
front cover. Pictorial feature illustrating re-
building on Walcheren Island.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 36 ---
A Christmas Letter, page 2. Poem by Eugene
Jolas, editorial staff, Die Neue Zeitung.
Christmas Vignettes, page 3. Collection of
“best stories’ of postwar Germany by Col.
Paul J. Maddox, chief, Chaplain Division,
EUCOM; Dr. James R. Newman, US state com-
missioner for Hesse; Gertrud Brandsch-Boehm,
14-year-old Berlin school girl; John A. Biggs,
deputy chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC
Bavaria; Pavils Klans, staff writer of Latvija,
Latvian DP newspaper, Esslingen, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden; and Spero Galanepulo, news com-
mentator, American Forces Network station,
Berlin,
GYA Christmas Plans, page 7. Article by Mar-
garet Sorenson, GYA Section, OPOT Division,
EUCOM, giving preview of yuletide fetes
arranged at US Army's military posts in US
Zone.
New Ideas for Women, page 9. Article by
Marjorie A. Yahraes, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, summarizing discussions at confer-
ence in Haus Schwalbach, near Wiesbaden,
of 200 American and German women leaders.
Oberammergau, page 11. Article by Paul W.
Freedman, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG,
giving preview of 1950 Passion Play.
Youth Forums Maturing, pages 15-16. Pictorial
feature contributed by Hans Lamm, US member
of staff of Board of Review, illustrating acti-
vities of Nuremberg German-American Youth
Club.
Public School Reform, page 18. Summary of
report by the Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG,
concerning proposal for better schools for
workers’ children.
Report to the People, page 19. Monthly broad-
cast prepared by the Public Relations Division,
ICOG, reviewing major activities during
November.
HICOG's Objective, page 21. Statement by Maj.
Gen. George P. Hays, deputy US high commis-
sioner.

Germany Today, page 23. Transcript of inter-
view by John J. McCloy, US high commis-
sioner.

Bavaria's Progress, page 27. Review by Murray
D. Van Wagoner, retiring US state commis-
sioner for Bavaria.

Hesse's Progress, page 29. Review by Dr. James
R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse.
Cities from Ruins, page 32. Summary of report
by Sam B. Zisman, Philadelphia city planner
and architect, following three-month survey of
German housing.

Rule of Law, page 33. Excerpt of address by
Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN, US state commis-
sioner for Bremen, at ceremony for admission
of German lawyers to practice before new US
courts in Germany.

Agricultural Extension, page 35. Article by
James F. Keim, agricultural extension special-
ist, Food, Agriculture and Forestry Branch,
OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, advocating better
service of agriculture research to farmers.
Appraising Cost of Peace, page 37. Statement
by Senator A. Willis Robertson, member of
the US Senate Appropriations Committee,
during survey visit to Germany.

Secretary Acheson Visits Germany, page 38.
Summary of statements and tour by Dean
Acheson, US srecetary of state, during official
visit.

For Better Understanding, page 41. Address
by Ambassador Robert D. Murphy, formerpoli-
tical adviser to the US military governor, and
acting director, Office of German and Austrian
Affairs, Department of State, at Washington
dinner for 15 German Lawyers.

Challenge to Europe, page 43. Speech by Paul
G. Hoffman, administrator, Economic Coopera-
tion Administration, at OEEC meeting in Paris.
Christian Social Union, page 47. Part 4 in
series.

Industrial Production, page 50. Monthly eco-
nomic review.

So wohnt Amerika (So Lives American), pages
62-67. Pictorial feature of touring exhibition
prepared by Exhibition Section, Information
Services Division, HICOG, showing Germans
typical housing and living stardards in’ the
United States.

American Farmers Make Friendship Tour,
page 77. Pictorial feature.

MARCH 1953

No. 174 — January 1950 — 69 pages
Our German Problem Today, page 2. Digest of
speech by Henry A. Byroade, director, Bureau
of German Affairs, US Department of State.
Labor Picture, page 3. Article by Harry W.
Brown, director, Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG, summarizing observations of tour of
US Zone.

Courage to Love, page 5. Translation of speech
by Dr. Theodor Heuss, president of the German
Federal Republic, advocating closer Christian-
Jewish relations.

Constitutional Development, page 7. Article by
Anton F. Pabsch, Political Affairs Liaison
Office, Bonn, and S. L. Wahnhaftig, Internal
Political and Governmental Affairs Division,
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, tracing
development of German governmental activi-
ties toward national sovereignty.

Profiles of Top Officials of Federal Republic,
page 8. Thumbnail sketches.

Youth Week, pages 10-11. Pictorial feature and
story by Nicholas Semaschko, US resident
officer, Esslingen, Wuerttemberg-Baden, de-
scribing community program.

5,000,000 Homes Needed, page 12. Summary of
report by Lawrence H. Cox, American housing
expert, following survey of building and city
planning in US Zone.

Employee Morale, page 13. Article by Chester
E. Beaman, chief, Employee Relations and Ser-
vices Branch, Personnel Division, Office of
Administration, HICOG, outlining services
offered US employees.

Returned Masterworks, page 15. Article by
Theodore Allen Heinrich, cultural adviser,
Property Division, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing public visit to exhibition in
Wiesbaden of Germany's famous paintings re-
turned from safekeeping in the United States.
Radio Institute, page 19. Condensed text of
address by Ralph Nicholson, director, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, at ceremony turning
operation over to German administration.
Holy Year Pilgrimage, page 21. Article written
by Aileen S. Miles, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing procedure permitting Ger-
mans and occupation personnel to go to Rome
for jubilee pilgrimage.

UNICEF, page 22. Article furnished by Berlin
headquarters of UNICEF Mission to Germany,
describing United Nations assistances to needy
and underprivileged children.

Patents System, page 27. Article by Victor L.

Billings, Legal Advise Division, Office of the
General Counsel, HICOG, reviewing revival
of German patent-control administration.
Resident Officers, page 29. Summary of
speeches and discussions at first two-day con-
ference in Frankfurt of US resident officers
of the US Zone.

Communications Rehabilitation, pages 32-35.
Pictorial feature by Eugene H. Merrill, chief,
Communications Branch, Industry Division,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, illustrat-

ing progress in reconstructing facilities of
German postal, telegraph and telephone
systems.

Free Tuition, page 39. Article by Dr. Herman
L. Offner, educational adviser, Public Affairs
Division, OLC Bavaria, advocating German
adoption to reduce waste of human talent.
Ambassadors in Khaki, page 37. Article by Dr.
W. P. Shofstall, adviser to US Armed Forces,
GYA Branch, OPOT Division, EUCOM, de-
scribing GYA training course at Oberammergau
school for US soldiers.

Local Self-Rule, page 39. Broadcast speech Dr.
Albert C. Schweizer, late chief, Political Af-
fairs Division, OLC Bavaria, advocating changes
in legislation to give greater powers to coun-
ties and communities.

Penicillin Produced in Germany,
ticle by Walter E. Burkhard, peni
tant, Merck & Co., Inc., Frankfurt-Hoechst,
describing first plant built in Germany for
produce - material.

Report to the People, page 43. Review
pared for ADN by Public Relations Divi:
HICOG, of major activities of November.
Winter Tourists, page 48. Summary of German
recreational attractions.

Communist Party, page 49. Part 5 in series.
Pelersberg Protocol, page 64. Text of agree-
ments between Allied High Commission and
German Government concerning limitations in
industrial activities.

33

Special IV — Activities of the Office
of Public Affairs — January 1950
— 73 pages
Brochure containing 35 original articles
describing functions and activities of
various divisions, branches and sections
of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.
Office of Public Affairs, page 1.
Exchanges Division, page 3.
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
page 9.
US Information Centers, page 11.
Theater and Music, page 15.
Education, page 17. -
Democratization of School System, page 18.
School Housing, page 20.
Vocational Education, page 21.
Teacher Education, page 23.
Postwar Textbooks, page 25.
American Institute, page 26.
Education Service Centers, page 27.
Lay Participation, page 28.
Free University of Berlin, page 29.
Women's Affairs, page 30.
Religious Affairs, page 35.
Health and Welfare, page 37.
Community Councils, page 40.
Community Recreation, page 40.
Community Activities, page 41.
Youth Activities, page 42.
Adult Education, page 44.
Audio-Visual Aid, page 46.
Governmental Institutions, page 47.
Resident Officers, page 49.
Information Services Division, page 51.
Press and Publications, page 52.
US Feature Servite, page 55.
Publishing Operations, page 57.
RIAS, page 59.
German Radio, page 62.
Motion Pictures, page 63.
Reactions Analysis, page 66.
Public Relations Division, page 69.

No. 175 — February 1950 — 57 pages

Frankfurt Housing Project, inside front cover.
Summary of plan to construct modern .apart-
ments for US employees of HICOG head-
quarters.

Military Security Board, page 3. Address by
Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges, US commissioner,
Military Security Board, outlining functions
and activities of tripartite organization to
restrict re-creation of German armament pro-
gram.

American Affairs Institute, page 5. Article by
Dr. David L. Hoggan, assistant to the director,
American Institute at Munich University, de-
scribing development of first school in Europe
devoted to study of American affairs.
Relief by Parcel Post, pages 8-9. Pictorial
feature by Eugene Merrill, chief, Communica-
tions Branch, Industry Division, Office of Eco-
nomics Affairs, HICOG, illustrating food and
clothing packages sent by Americans through
postal system to German needy.

Tourist Dollar Drive, page 10. Summary of
plan by German organizations to attract tour-
ists to Germany.

Displaced Persons, page 11. Article by. Charles
T. Reyner, Office of Public Information, Inter-
national Refugee Organization, US Zone head-
quarters, Bad Kissingen, Bavaria, reviewing
postwar care and resettlement.

Report on Progress, page 15. Address by John
J. McCloy, US high commissioner, over Amer-
ican radio from Washington.

Resident Officer Saves Child, page 18. Ac-
count of effort to get proper food for dying
orphan.

Good Neighbor Week, page 19. Article by John
W..Jergenson, US resident officer in Friedberg,
Hesse, describing local social experiment in
community cooperation and better housing.
Small Animal Clinic, page 20. Account of care
provided in Frankfurt for pets of occupation
personnel.

Mission for 1950, page 23. Digest of address by
Ralph Nicholson, director, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Report to the People, page 25. Review pre-
pared for AFN by the Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, of major
activities during December.

ECA Agreement Signed, page 27. Summary of
provisions of US-German accord for assistance
to Federal Republic.

US High Commissioner for Germany and His
Staff, pages 28-29. Photograph by Claude Ja-
coby, photographer, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, of Mr. McCloy
and his top-ranking advisers.

School Reform in Bavaria, page 30. Summary
of report by Dr. Dale Zeller, US education
consultant, following survey.

Occupation Vignettes, page 31. Collection of
accounts of unusual incidents.
Minor Political Parties, page 33.
series.

Industrial Expansion Aided, page 38. Summary
of direct financial aid being given 725 German
industrial firms.

Ruhr Power Reaches Bavaria, page 39. Ac-
count of servicing electric power to small
town with American assistance.

Text of ECA Agreement and Documents, page
46.

Housing for Europe's People, page 57. Pictorial
feature of ECA assistance.

Part 6 in

No. 176 — March 1950 — 97 pages

Only American Radio Station Behind the Iron
Curtain, inside front cover. Pictorial feature of
RIAS in Berlin.

Stuttgart US Information Center, page 2. Pic-
torial story.

German Refugees and Expelles, page 3. Article
by Guy J. Swope, special adviser to US high
commissioner and chief, Displcaed Populations
Division, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG,
describing problems, care and current activities
concerning uprooted populations.

Allied Watch on the Rhine, page 7. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, staff writer, Public Rela-
tions Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
describing functions and activities of the tri-
partite organization in western Germany.
ECA on Tour, pages 12-14. Pictorial feature
illustrating touring exhibition displaying story
of the Economic Recovery Program.
Agricultural Outlock, page 15. Article by
Gwynn Garnett, chief, Food and Agriculture
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.
Germany Calling Overseas, page 17. Article
by John D. Ryals, Communications Branch,
Industry Division, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, describing telecommunications with
other countries.

Distorting German History, page 19. Article by
Dr. Robert M. W. Kempner, former US deputy
chief prosecutor, Office of Chief of Counsel
for War Crimes, in Nuremberg, describing
nationalistic sentiments appearing in German
magazines; reprinted from New York Herald
Tribune.

Stuttgart Speech, page 21. Summary of editor-
jals in world press concerning Stuttgart speech
by John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner,
Dateline: Germany, page 23. Article, written
by Aileen S. Miles, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing activities of the corre-
spondents in Germany for American newspapers
and press services.

Way of Democracy, page 30. Translation of
speech by Dr. Hans Ehard, minister president
of Bavaria.

Power of Open Forums’ page 31. Article by
Ellis H. McKay, US resident officer in Mell-
tichstadt, Bavaria, reviewing local changes
resulting from discussion at town meetings.
Medical Associations, page 33. Digest of report
by Dr. Franz Goldmann, associate professor
at Harvard School of Public Health and visiting
consultant, Public Health Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG, giv-
ing findings and recommendations concerning
German restrictions on medical practice.
Youth and Civic Responsibility, page 35. Sum-
mary of meeting of German-American Youth
Club at Nuremberg with text of speech by
Mrs, John J. McCloy, wife of the US high
commissioner.

Voluntary Assistance, page 36. Article by
Aileen S. Miles, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing work of Council of Volun-
tary Agencies and affiliated organizations in‘
the care and assistance of displaced persons.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Women in Industry, page 41, Summary of re-
port by two visiting consultants, Sara Southall,
personnel department of the International
Harvester Company of Chicago, and Pauline M.
Newman, International Ladies Garment Work-
ers Union, American Federation of Labor,
concerning their survey of conditions affect-
ing women in Germany.

HICOG in January, page 43. Review prepared
for AFN by Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, of major activities
during January.

East Zone Government, page 45. Article by
Henry B. Cox, foreign affairs specialists, Office
of German Political Affairs, US ‘Department
of State, reviewing Soviet creation of a provi-
sional government in its zone, reprinted from
Department af States Bulletin.

Control of Government in the Soviet Zone,
page 47. Report by the Political Affairs Divi-
sion, Berlin Element, HICOG, with organizatio-
nal chart.

OLCWB State Seminar for Resident Officers,
page 53. Article by Cecil Headrick, US resident
officer in Nuertingen, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
resuming state conference. Public Politically
Inert, page 58. Summary of public opinion
survey ly Information Services Division, Office
of public Affairs, HICOG, on extent of know-
ledge of average German concerning political
issues.

International University Theater, page 59. Ar-
ticle by Herman Hahn, former theater special-
ist, Education and Cultural Affairs Division,
OMG Bavarian, reviewing summer gathering
at Erlangen University.

Democracy in Munich, page 62. Pictorial feat-
ure on activities and effects of town meetings
advocated by US resident officers.

Speeches of US High Commissioner Delivered
in Stuttgart and Boston, page 65. Texts of two
speeches.

Fire Alert, page 82. Feature on fire-prevention
at Rhine-Main airport.

Democratization of Education, page 84. Sum-
mary of visit of Dr. Herman B. Wells, president
of Indiana University and former cultural
adviser to US military governor, to Germany.
Improving Water Highways, page 97. Pictorial
feature of ECA assistance.

No. 177-— April 1950 — 73 pages

Free Vote for Unity, page 2. Statement by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner at
press conference Feb. 28 in Frankfurt.

ECA Aid to Germany, page 3. Statement by
Robert H. Hanes, chief, ECA Special Mission
to Western Germany, Feb. 27, before US
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and House
Foreign Affairs Committee in Washington.
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher, page 7. Article by
Beth Burchard, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, on work of young German women in
night school for adults in Ulm, Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

Challenge to the Christian World, page 10.
Excerpt of radio address by Capt. Charles R.
Jeffs, USN, state commissioner for Bremen.
Transportation Revival, page 11. Article by
William A. Fagan, chief, Transportation Branch,
Industry Division, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG.

Fellowship of Love, page 15. Article by Dr.
Leroy Vogel, chief, Education Branch, Public
Affairs Division, OLC Hesse, on work of
Brethren Service Commission in assisting Ger-
man rural youth.

“Mach Mit" — at RIAS, pages 18-19. Pictorial
feature by Fred G. Taylor, director, RIAS,
on clothing collecting program conducted by
the US-sponsored radio station in Berlin.
Youth Organizations Developing, page 20. Sum-
mary of review by Lee S. Wilson, retiring
chief, Youth Activities Section, Education and
Cultural Affairs Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG.

Police Reform, page 21. Article by James L.
McCraw, chief, Public Safety Branch, Internal
Political and Governmental Affairs Division,
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG.

Midway with ERP, page 23. Article by Lucien
Agniel, assistant information officer, ECA
Special Mission to Western Germany, review-
ing first two years of Marshall Plan activities
in Germany.

34

“Refugee Shoemaker, page 26. Article written
by Beth Burchard, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, concerning small industry started by
refugee in Berlin.

Building Rate Spurred, page 28. Summary of
review by Dr. Karl F. Bode, chief, Program
Division, ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany, of German Government's plan.

Road Back to Health, page 29. Article by Lt.
Col. Walter R. de Forest, chief, Medical Af-
fairs Section, Education and Cultural Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
reviewing progress of public health activities
in Germany.

What Do You Think?, page 31. Article by Dr.
Lee P. Crespi, chief, Reactions Analysis
Branch, Information Services Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing develop-
ment of opinion-survey program in Germany.
The Mailman Gets a Home, page 36-38. Pictorial
feature by Thomas E. Nelson, Communications
Branch, Industry Division, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG, describing program of Ger-
man postal system to build new homes for
employees.

Berlin Women’s Club, page 39. Article written
by Beth Buchard, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing welfare work done by
organization of American women in Berlin.
Women of North Germany, page 41. Article
reprinted from Monthly Report of the Control
Commission for Germany (British Element).
The Hedler Case, page 43. Article written by
Aileen S. Miles, staff writer Information
Bulletin, rounding up comments and editorials
concerning acquittal of member of Federal
Parliament on charges of preaching racism and
nationalism.

Fulda Art Congress, page 54-55. Pictorial feat-
ure by Dr. Leo Weismantel, director, Teachers
Training College of Fulda, on first congress of
art instructors in Germany.

Highway Patrol, page 56. Review of first year’s
activities of US Army's traffic-control unit.
A Look at the Land, page 63. Summary of
report by M. L. Wilson, director, US Agri-
cultural Extension Service, during visits as
head of ECA technical assistance team to
Germany.

ECA Serves..., page 73. Pictorial feature of
ECA assistance in Europe.

No. 178 — May 1950 — 81 pages

Tide of Toys, inside front cover. Pictorial feat-
ure of gifts shipped to European children by
the American Legion.

Sudetens Come Home, page 2. Pictorial feature
on transfer of ethnic Germans from Czecho-
slovakia to Germany.

Breaking down the Barriers, page 3. Article
written by Aileen S. Miles, staff writer,
Information Bulletin, reviewing progress in
German-American relations.

Oldest Consulate in Germany, page 7. Article
by Robert P. Chalker, consul, American Con-
sulate General, Bremen, presenting historical
feature on the Bremen consulate.

New Homes for Refugees, page 11. Article by
John E. McGowan, chief, ECA and Economic
Affairs Branch, Public Relations Divisions, Of-
fice of Public Affairs, HICOG, describing ECA
program for construction of apartment blocks
for refugees in Schleswig-Holstein.

Books at Your Service, page 14. Article by
Henry A. Dunlap, chief librarian, HICOG, and
US_archivist, HICOM, describing service of
HICQG Reference Library in Frankfurt.
Operation “Show-How!", page 17. Article by
Aileen S. Miles, staff. writer, Information
Bulletin, explaining assistance of American
technological science to speeding western Ger-
many's economic recovery.

Refugee Camp, page 20. Pictorial feature by
Claude Jacoby, photographer, Public Relations

Divisions, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
on transient camp at Giessen, Hesse.
Youth Under Communism, page 21. Article

written by H. Warner Waid, editor, Information
Bulletin, with assistance of study prepared by
the Political Affairs Division, Berlin Element,
HICOG, describing the control and activities
of the monopolistic youth organization in the
Soviet Zone of Germany.

We Must Export..., page 25. Article by Fred
Welty, staff writer, Public Relations Division,
Office’ of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing
Germany's postwar foreign trade.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 38 ---
House of Clay, page 26. Story of action of
Bavarian community in building houses follow-
ing discussion at town meeting.

Expellees’ Glove Firm, page 27. Story of co-
operative action by group of expellees from
Czechoslovakia in launching a community in-
dustry.

American Policy in Germany, page 29. Address
by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US assistant
high commissioner, at annual spring confer-
ence of American schools teachers in Berchtes-
gaden.

Exercise Shamrock, page 32-33. Pictorial feature
of US Army maneuvers.

Individual's Role in ERP, page 34. Address by
Robert M. Hanes, chief, ECA Special Mission
to Western Germany, at opening March 20 of
ERP exhibit in Stuttgart.

Germany in a United Europe, page 37. Address
by John McCloy, US high’ commissioner, at
dinner of Pilgrims’ Society in London.
Hollywood Stars Speak German, page 40. Ar-
ticle popularity of staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing popularity ‘of American
made motion pictures in Germany.

HICOG in March, page 48. Review prepared
for AFN by Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, of major activities
during March.

Economic Review for March 1950, page 51.
Monthly economic review by M. W. A. Edward,
chief, Reports Office, ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany.

Index, page 69. Listing of articles published
in the Information Bulletin during 1949.
Vocational Training for Youth of Europe,
page 8. Pictorial feature of ECA assistance.

No. 179 — June 1950 — 73 pages

Latvians Move On, inside front cover. Pictorial
feature concerning disbanding of labor service
unit at Rhine-Main Air Base.

May Day in Berlin, page 2. Pictorial feature
of Germans’ labor day rally.

Five Years after Potsdam, page 3. Address by
Ralph Nicholson, director, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, reviewing occupation activi-
ties in’ Germany.

Mainz Psalter Returned, page 6. Summary of
discovery of famous book in the United States
and return to Germany.

Germany Makes Restitution, page 7. Article
prepared by Property Division, Office of Eco-
nomic Affairs, HICOG, reviewing work of
restoring Nazi Loot to rightful owners.
Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy, page 11. Article
by Rosemarie Sponner, press officer, Public
Relations Division, Office of Public | Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing activities of wife of the US
high commissioner.

Anti-Rearmament Law, page 14. Summary of
HICOM statue concerning industrial potential.
HICOG Staff Planning, page 15. Article by
David Wilken, chief, Personnel Division, Office
of Administration, HICOG, defining supervision
of American personnel.

Movies on American Life Popular, page 18.
Summary of description by Carol: Denison,
chief, Audie-Visual Section, Information Ser-
vices Division,’ Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, of program in bringing documentary
films on American life to German audiences.
US Films Ride the Rails, page 19. Article by
Sidney S. Siskind, US senior resident officer,
Regensburg, Bavaria, describing equiping of
roilroad car as small theater for showing US
documentary films to travelers,

ERP Marks Second Anniversary, page 20. Ad-
dress by John J. McCloy, US high commissi-
oner, at opening April 22 of ERP exhibit in
Passau, Bavaria.

Public Weliare’s Mailbag, page 21. Article
written by Beth Burchard, staff writer
Information Bulletin, reviewing letters sent
HICOG officials requesting assistance.

The House That Youth Built, page 23. Article
by Raymond Lascoe, US ‘resident officer,
Pforzheim, Wuerttemberg-Baden, describing
construction of community center.
The Pfennig Parade, page 26. Summary of
“March of Dime’ campaign in Bavaria.
Dollar Drive, page 27. Article by Fred Welty,
press officer, Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG,’ reviewing effort to
raise German exports to match costs of imports.

MARCH 1953

American and German Theater, page 29. Article
by Frederic Mellinger, visiting consultant and
lecturer, US Information Centers, comparing
drama of the two countries.

Training for Citizenship, page 31. Review by
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, of progress
of school reform in US Zone.

Freedom Prizes for Artists, page 33. Article by
Peter F. Szluk, deputy chief, Employee Rela-
tions and Services Branch, Personnel Division,
Office of Administration, HICOG, telling of
first of annual awards made in Berlin.
26,865,000 Meals a Week, page 36. Summary
of German school-feeding program.

The Reorientation of Germany, page 37. Text
of address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US
assistant high commissioner, prepared for
delivery in Chicago.

Job Seekers in Berlin, page 40. Pictorial feat-
ure by Claude Jacoby, photographer, Public
Relations Division, Office of Public | Affairs,
HICOG,

Model Fathers’ Club, page 42. Article by
Bernard Quinn, staff writer, Public Informa-
tion Division, EUCOM, describing recreational
and camping activities provided by American
officers in Heidelberg for their sons.
Economic Review for April 1950, page 46. Re-
view by M. W. A. Edwards, chief, Reports
Office, ECA Special Mission to Western Ger-
many.

Bavaria’s Sounding Board, page 48. Summary
of town meetings held in Augsburg region.
HICOM Law on Control of Certain Articles,
Products, Installations and Equipment, page 61.
Text of statute.

Only Port in the American Zone, page 73.
Pictorial feature by Claude Jacoby, HICOG
photographer, of Bremen harbor facilities.

No. 180 — July 1950 — 73 pages

Berlin's Whitsun Auto Show,
cover. Pictorial feature.
Rothenburg Wine Ceremony, page 2. Pictorial
feature illustrating visit of US high commis-
sioner.

Drama of German Recovery, page 3. Article by
Aileen S. Miles, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, giving clear description of the mean-
ing of counterpart funds and their use.

The Schluechtern Plan, page 6. Article by Beth
Burchard, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
describing the program launched in the Hessian
county of Schluechtern for building houses for
refugees and encouraging their trades.

Aged DP's to Go under German Care, page 11.
Summary of program in Wuerttemberg-Baden
for settlement of certain displaced persons.
Low Cost of Occupation Stressed, page 12.
Summary of radio broadcast by K: F. Frede-
ticks, chief, Finance Branch, OLC Bavaria,
explaining benefits of US spending in Germany
as compared with costs to Germans for oc-
cupation requirements.

Orientation -via the Eye, page 13, Article de-
scribing the preparation of display exhibits by
the Exhibition Section, Visual Presentation
Branch, Operating Facilities Division, Office of
Administration, HICOG.

Stamping Out of Radical Prejudice Urged,
page 16. Text of letter by Dr. James R. New-
man, director, OLC Hesse, to German minister
president, urging state action against destruc-
tion in Jewish cemeteries.

German-American Convention, page 17. Article
written by Beth Burchard, staff writer,
Information Bulletin, reviewing discussions and
activities of fourth annual meeting of US
Zone federation.

School Kids Meet the Mayor, page 19. Article
by Zeno Stangwilo, US resident officer, Geln-
hausen and Schluechtern, Hesse, describing
program of introducing school children to
operation of municipal administration.
Emigration from Germany, page 21. Article by
George Weisz, deputy chief, Displaced Popula-
tions Division, Office of Political Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing program for resettlement
of refugees and expellees

Our Department of State, page 25. Transcript
of remarks by Dean Acheson, US secretary of
state, to newspaper dinner in Washington
April 22, outlining functions and activities of
the department.

inside front

35

Validity of Mandatory Leases Affirmed, page 31.
Summary of announcement by Ralph Nichol-
son, director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
to safeguard publishers of postwar newspapers
against actions by disposed pre-occupation
owners to regain control of plant property,
German Participation in International Bodies,
page 32, Listing of international organizations
in which Germany has been given membership
or affiliation.

Defense of Democracy, page 33. Address by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, at
opening of US Information Center in Hanover
May 22.

Deutsche Post (German Postal System), pages
36-37. Pictorial feature illustrating telephone
and telegraph facilities provided Allied per-
sonnel.

Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed, page
38. Summary of court action against group of
German firms concerning export of abrasives.
Germany Today—Economially and Financially,
page 39. Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser,
US assistant high commissioner, before Invest-
ment Bankers’ Association of America May 18.
Tempelhof Civil Aviation under HICOG Con-
trol, page 43. Summary of transfer from
USAFE.
Puppet “People’s Police’’ Protested, page 45.
Summary and text of US note.

Economic Review, page.48, Monthly review by
Reports Office, ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany, covering April.
Students More Liberal than their Elders,
page 60. Summary of public-opinion survey by
Reactions Analysis Branch, Information Services
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
concerning liberal attitude found in German
universities.

Declaration on Germany, page 61. Selection of
editorials from American and German press
concerning announcements from the London
Conference of Foreign Ministers, with text of
declaration.

HICOM Law No. 27, page 64. Text of statute
for reorganization of German coal, iron and
steel industries.

Principles on Freedom to Engage in Trade,
page 70, Texts of HICOM letter and statement
to” German officials advocating liberalization
of traditional German restrictions on trade,
business and professional activities.

Europe's GI's Go to School, page 73. Pictorial
feature on instruction for officers and soldiers
of five nations at USAREUR Ordnance School
at Eschwege.

No. 181 — August 1950 — 73 pages

Newsmen Survey Refugee Situation, inside
front cover. Pictorial feature on tour conducted
by Public Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, for American, Allied and
German news correspondents to inspect refugee
camps in western Germany.

Model Classrooms Set Up in Bavaria, page 2.
Summary of experiment in constructing’ and
equipping German schools according to Amer-
ican standards.

Windows to the West, page 3. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim
Branch, Public Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing development,
activities and effectiveness of US Information
Centers in Germany.

Refugees Helping Themselves, page 7. Article
by Beth Burchard, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, reviewing and analyzing conditions
and work found in refugees camps in western
Germany during PRD-sponsored tour (note
above).

School Clean-Up Day, pages 12-13. Pictorial
feature by George H. Godfrey, US senior
resident officer, Munich, illustrating assistance
given by Americans and US Ammy units to
German officials in removing rubble from war-
damaged school property.

Majority of Germans Side with West in Cold
War, page 14. Summary of public-opinion sur-
vey by Reactions: Analysis Branch, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

The CARE Legend, page 15. Article by James
Stanley, CARE Mission to Germany, reviewing
relief and welfare assistance provided by
packages delivered in Germany by American
organization.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Anti-Polio Drive Spreads, page -18. Summary
of results of Bavarian adaption of American
“March of Dimes” campaign.

Youth Self-Help, page 19. Article by Everett
G. Chapman, adviser in community activities,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing
endeavors of German students to earn their
own support while getting an education.
Exchangees Applaud US Visits, page 21. Sum-
mary of conference of Germans who have
returned from United States under sponsorship
of HICOG's exchange program.

Ruhr Industry's Problems, page 23. Address
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, at
meeting of Ruhr industrialists, political leaders
and bankers in Duesseldorf, June 16.
Rhine-Main's Adopted Children, pages 26-27.
Pictorial feature illustrating care being taken
by American families of orphaned and abandon-
ed German children.

Edeltraut's on Her Way, page 28. Story of de-
parture of Edeltraut Schwarzer, 15-year-old
Stuttgart girl, as young exchange student for
the United States.

Deggendorf Marks  1,200th_ Anniversary,
page 29. Article by John J. Greeley, US re-
sident officer, Deggendorf, previewing celebra-
tion planned in eastern Bavarian city.

A Five-Year Inventory, page 31. Address by
Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high
commissioner, June 19, at US Information Cen-
ter in Heilbronn, Wuerttemberg-Baden.
Mainz Exhibiting Treasured Psalter. page 35.
Summary of presentation of famed Mainz Psal-
ter to German custody.

Dachau Camp, pages 36-39. Pictorial feature by
Claude Jacoby, photographer, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
illustrating conditions in the transient refugee
camp in Bavaria.

International Brotherhood and the Radio, page
40. Address by Ralph Nikolson, director, Of-
fice of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Farm Youth Speaks Out, page 41. Article by
James F. Keim, communities activities adviser
on rural education and agriculture, Public Af-
fairs Division, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, re-
viewing state training conference.
Nationalism and the Modern State, page 44.
Text of radio broadcast by Stuart L .Hannon,
chief, Information Services Branch, Public Af-
fairs Division, OLC Wuerttemberaq-Baden.
Economic Review, page 48. Monthly review
by Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
covering May.

Soapbox Derby Goes German, page 73. Pictorial
feature of contest sponsored for German
youngster by US Army’s GYA officials.

No. 182 — September 1950 — 97 pages

Art Exhibition in Bonn,
Pictorial feature.

HICOG Housing Project, page 2. Photographs
of interior of some rooms in new apartment
buildings for US employees in Frankfurt.
Internationalism Builds Better Schools, page 2.
Article by Dr. James Morgan Read, chief,
Education and Cultural Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing
contribution of Germans to development of
American education.

Communist Press in Western Germany, page 5.
Article by F. Gardner Cox, Jr., Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing and analyz-
ing activities and content of party publica-
tions issued by Communists as daily news-
papers.

ERP House Building for Refugees Progresses in
Schleswig-Holstein, pages 8-9. Pictorial feature
illustrating progress in construction.
Declaration of Rights of Displaced Persons,
page 10. Summary of declaration by German
Federal Government.

Midway on the Main, page 11. Article by Dr.
Leroy Vogel, chief, Education and Cultural
Affairs Branch, and Hillard Anthony Rhodes,
chief, Public Relations Branch, both of Public
Affairs Division, OLC Hesse, describing ex-
change of professors between the Universities
of Chicago and Frankfurt.

Europa Union Ptebiscites, ‘page 15. Article by
Allen C. Siebens, governmental affairs officer,
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, reviewing
the overwhelming support given the European
unity movement at voluntary plebiscites in
Breisach, South Baden, and in Castrop-Rauxel,
North Rhine-Wesphalia.

inside front cover.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Congress for Cultural Freedom, page 19. Ar-
ticle by Wolf von Eckardt, deputy chief, Edi-
torial Projection Branch, Information Services
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
reviewing speeches and declarations taken at
first international meeting in Berlin of leading
writers, professor, artists and philosophers.
Soviets Delay Repatriation of German PW's,
page 24. Text of US note protesting Soviet
retention of German prisoners of war.
America Is Different, page 25. Article by Fried-
rich G. H. Grohe, German exchange student,
reviewing experiences of year and half study
in the United States. :

Ein Glas Milch, Bitte (A Glass of Milk, Please),
page 30. Article written by Hillard Anthony
Rhodes, chief, Public Relations Branch, Public
Affairs Division, OLC Hesse, describing ex-
periment in pasteurizing and bottling milk tor
public delivery.

Child Guidance, page 33. Article by Haynes
R. Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public
Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing results of conference of
German and American educators to encourage
liberalization of traditional German discipline
in schools.

“Spontaneous” East-Zone Protests Exposed,
page 35. Summary of comparison of officially-
sponsored declarations and secret private
letters concerning US defense’ of Korean in-
dependence.

Europe Builds, pages 36-37. Pictorial feature
of touring ECA exhibition in Bremen.

Hesse to Combat Intolerance, page 38, Sum-
mary and text of letter by Christian Stock,
minister president of Hesse, to US State com-
missioner, replying to letter concerning racial
prejudice.

Reverence for Life, page 39. Summary of meet-
ing of group of German youth leaders with
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, and
text of Mr. McCloy's statement to them.
Farmers from America, page 41. Article by
Trude Kriegsmann, staff writer, Public Rela-
tions Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC
Hesse, describing activities of four young
Americans spending summer on farms in Hesse.
US Press Cites Fraud in Communist ‘Peace
Petition’, page 43. Selection of editorials from
American press.

Settlement of Bizonal Fusion Agreement, page
45. Summary and text of US and British notes
concluding financial matters resulting from
the operations of the Bizonal Area.

Penicillin Plant Dedicated, page 47. Summary
of ceremony at opening of Hoechst plant (see
issue No. 174), with text of address by John
J. McCloy, US high commissioner.

Berlin Industry Exhibition, pages 48-50. Pictor-
ial feature illustrating plans for US participa-
tion.

Preservation of Democracy, page 51. Address
by Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state com-
missioner, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, at Fourth
of July ceremony in Stuttgart.

Objective: Friendship, page 52. Address by
Dr. George N. Shuster, US state commissioner,
OLC Bavaria, an Bavarian radio on assuming
new duties.

Practicing the Golden Rule, page 55. Address
by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN, US state commis-
sioner, OLC Bremen, at graduation ceremony
June 16 of the American High School in
Bremerhaven.

Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable. page 59.
Text of radio interview by John J. McCloy,
US high commissioner.

West German Steel Industry, page 65. Review
reprinted from the Monthly Report of the
Control Commission for Germany (British Ele-
ment).

Economic Review, page 76. Monthly review by
Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
covering June.

Tale of the Potato Bug, page 79. Article writ-
ten by H. Warner Waid, editor, Information
Bulletin, describing Communist attempts to
blame potato shortage in Soviet Zone on Amer-
icans.

Frankfurt Stopover, page 81. Pictorial feature
of Red Cross assistance in main railroad sta-
tion.

Mutual Defense Assistance Program, page 97.
Pictorial feature of mechanical instruction given
by US Army to military representatives of
other countries.

36

No. 183 — October 1950 — 97 pages

US Information Center in Hamburg, inside
front cover. Pictorial feature of opening of
new America House.

Allied Policy on Germany, pages 2-3. Text
of Communique of meeting of Foreign Minis-
ters in New York.

Germany's Views Foreign Ministers' Com-
munique, page 4. Article by Wilfried Saliger,
chief, German Editorial Section, Public Rela-
tions Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, rounding up selected editorials from
German press.

Fallacy of ‘Stockholm Resolution", page 8.
Text of letter by John J. McCloy, US high
commissioner, in reply to inquiry from Com-
munist youth group in Soviet Zone.

US State Observers, page 9. Article by Brad-
ford Wells, Internal Political and Governmen-
tal Affairs Division, Office of Political Affairs,
HICOG, describing functions and activities of
US representatives in states of western Ger-
many outside US Zone.

New Career — at 76, page 12. Feature on Mrs.
George L. Erion, mother of an American offi-
cial, in taking up painting after coming to
Germany.

Plight of Book Publishers, page 13. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim, Pub-
lic Relations Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG, reviewing postwar progress and
problems of German publishers.

Popularity of US Information Centers, page 16.
Summary of public-opinion survey by Reac-
tions Analysis Branch, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG.

US Consulates Come Back, page 17. Article by
Mildred Smith, US Consulate General, Frank-
furt, reviewing postwar activities of American
consulates in Germany. i.
They Got the Bus Rolling, page 22. Article”
by William T, Neel, US_ resident officer,
Heidelberg, Wuerttemberg-Baden, describing
actions of citizens of little community of
Mueckenloch to get bus service.
Socialization of Industry Opposed, page 22.
Summary of public-opinion survev by Reac-
tions Analysis Staff, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG.

Fighters Against Inhumanity, page 23. Article
by John T. Butterwick, Berlin Sector, HICOG,
describing purpose and activities of German
organization in opposing concentration camps
and violation of individual rights, particularly
in Soviet Zone.

HICOG Learns German, page 27. Article by
William G. Moulton, member of the faculty
of Cornell University and visiting consultant,
German Language Training Program, Office

of Administration, HICOG, describing German-’.

language courses provided American employees.
OEEC Truck Caravan, page 33. Article by Ho-
ward Calkins, chief, Public Relations Branch,
Public Affairs Division, OLC Bremen, review-
ing public reactions to visit of exhibit concern-
ing Marshall Plan aid.

GI-German Relations, page 35. Condensed text
of radio address by Brig. Gen. Edmund B.
Sebree, comanding general, Munich Military
Post, advocating closcr German-American ré-
lations. ‘
Majority Endorses Adenauer Government,
page 36. Summary of public-opinion survey

by Reactions Analysis Staff, Oltice of Public .

Affairs, HICOG.
Classroom Discussions, page 37. Article by
Noble Hiebert, adviser in educational affairs,
OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, reviewing program
to liberalize tratidional German restriction on
personal expression by students.

Medical Reform in Prisons Urged, page 40.

Summary of report by Dr. James Spradley,
American prison official and visiting consul-
tant, Prisons Division, Office of General

Counsel, HICOG. following survey in Germany.
One Year of HICOG, pages 41-56. Pictorial feat-
ure reviewing year's operation.

800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated, —

page 57. Summary of dedication of housing pro-
ject in Luebeck, Schleswig-Holstein.

The Exchangees Say..., page 58. Article by,
Beth Burchard, staff writer, Informat‘on
Bulletin, summarizing reports made hy Germans
sent to the United States for study and ob-
servation under the HICOG exchanges program.
Adding the Human Element, page 63. Sum-
mary of departure of 350 Germans for study

MARCH 1953

--- Page 40 ---
and observation in the United States, with text
of address by John J. McCloy, US high com-
missioner.

Freedom of Trade, page 65. Address by Robert
R. Bowie, general counsel, HICOG, at open-
ing July 18 of US Information Center in Ham-
burg, advocating democratic concept that in-
dividual has rights to choose and practice
profession of own desire.

Economic Review, page 74. Monthly review by
Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
covering July.

Decartelization Law Violators Fined, page 82.
Summary of court action against group of
firms concerning abrasive exports (note issue
No. 180).

Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan, page 83. Transla-
tion of article in Die Neue Zeitung, presenting
critical analysis of plan.

Erlangen Gives Pool to US Army, page 97.
Pictorial feature illustrating German-American
relations.

No. 184 — November 1950 — 97 pages

Frankfurt Synagogue Dedicated, inside front
cover. Pictorial feature.

New Accent on Youth, page -3. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim,
Branch, Public Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing tour by
American and German news correspondents of
youth institutions and projects in western
Germany.

East Side, West Side, All Around Berlin, page?.
Summary of impressions of Paul G. Hoffman,
retiring ECA administrator, during tour of
Berlin, particularly comparing free and com-
munist sectors of city.

New Industrial Habits for Old, page 9. Article
by Francis D. Murnaghan, Jr., Decartelization
and Deconcentration Division, Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, HICOG, reviewing efforts to
break up cartels in US Zone.

Action Starts on Steel Reorganization, page 11.
Summary of implementation of HICOM law to
end dominance of the industry.

George C. Marshall House, pages 12-13. Pictor-
ial feature of US-constructed exhibition hall
on Berlin fair grounds.

Trade Unionism Growing, page 14. Summary of
survey of reports issued by German labor
unions.

Labor Movement Pattern, page 15. Address by
Harvey W. Brown, director, Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG, at labor-union convention
Oct. 14 in Chicago.

Need for Immunization, page 19. Article by Lt.
Col. W. R. de Forest, chief, Medical Affairs
and Public Welfare Branch, and Dr. V. K.
Volk, public health adviser, both of Education
and Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, concerning new medi-
cal treatment ideas being advocated in Ger-
many.

Women's Responsibilities, page 21. Article
written by Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Bad
Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing
international conference of women leaders
Sept. 25-30 in Bad Reichenhall, Bavaria.
Little Michel's Fear, page 25. Article by Gisela
Konopka, assistant professor of social work,
University of Minnesota, and visiting consul-
tant on child guidance, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, on need for better guidance for child:
ren in Germany.

Teachers Go Bock to School, page 27. Article,
written by Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Bad
Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing
series of teacher institutes in Bavaria.
Finding Dollar Markets, page 31. Address by
Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high
commissioner, at opening ceremony of Export
Week in Munich.

The Talmud Returns, page 33.
Bemnard Quinn, Feature Section, Public In-
formation Division, EUCOM, reviewing work
of assembling and printing the encyclopedia
of Jewish tradition in Germany.

World's Students Talk Things Over, pages
36-37. Pictorial feature of meeting of students
from many nations at Koenigstein, Hesse.
German-American Relations Improving, page 37.
Summary of talk by Dr. Oron J. Hale, US
deputy state commissioner for Bavaria, over
Radio Munich.

Article by

MARCH 1953

The Press Replies, page 38. Roundup of selected
editorial from German press concerning US
high commissioner's comments on political
issues.

New Status of Germany, page 39. Address by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, over
German and American radio networks con-
cerning Germany's prime political issues.
The International Situation and Germany, page
41, Translation of radio address by Dr. Konrad
Adenauer, chancellor of the German Federal
Republic.

Germany's Civil Service, page 43. Address by
Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state com-
missioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden, defining
objectional features of traditional German
status for public servants and action needed
for correcting these inequalities.

German Experts Study US Tax System, page 46.
Summary of impressions of group after study
in United States under ECA technical assistance
program.

Second RO's Conference, page 47, Summary
of speeches and discussions at two-day con-
ference of US resident officers in Frankfurt.
Freedom Bell Tells Message of Hope and
Faith, page 48. Article by Lowell Bennett,
chief, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element,
HICOG, describing ceremony dedicating Free-
dom Bell in Berlin.

Historical Studies, page 51. Article describing
work of Historical Division, Office of Executive
Secretary, HICOG, in compiling monographs
on various fields of occupational activities.
US Architects Display Ideas, page 53. Descrip-
tion of exhibit of American architecture models
and ideas in Stuttgart.

Medical Mission, pages 54-55. Pictorial feature
of activities of visiting groups of medical
specialists to demonstrate new techniques in
German hospitals.

Germany's Need for ERP Aid in 1950-51, page
57. Excerpt from annual report of the economic
cooperation administrator.

Economic Review, page 68. Monthly review
by Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
covering August.

Young Visitors from America, page 80. Pictorial
feature of American university student groups
touring Germany.

Tasks for the Coming Year, page 85. Address
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, at
second resident officers conference in Frank-
furt.

Moral and Material Resistance, page 88.
Address by André Francois-Poncet, French
high commissioner, at second resident officers
conference.

Through British Spectacles, page 90. Address
by Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, British high com-
missioner, at second resident officers con-
ference.

Study-Time at Berlin Fair, page 97. Pictorial
feature of American model home being
inspected on class of home economics ‘students.

Special V — Education and Cul-
tural Activities in Germany Today,
1950 Edition — Nov. 1, 1950 —
93 pages
Brochure containing reprints of 43 articles
from Information Bulletin.
Five Years after Potsdam (No. 179)
Internationalism Builds Better Schools (No. 182)
Exchangees Applaud US Visits (No. 181)
America is Different (No. 182)
The Exchangees Say . . . (No. 183)
Farmers from America (No. 182)
Reverence for Life (No. 182)
Youth and Civic Responsibility (No. 176)
New Accent on Youth (No. 184)
Training for Leadership (No. 179)
Youth Self-Help (No. 181)
Child Guidance (No. 182)
Farm Youth Speaks Out (No. 181)
Youth Week (No. 174)
Free Tuition (No. 174)
Classroom Discussions (No. 183)
Model Classrooms Set Up in Bavaria (No. 181)
School Reform in Bavaria (No. 175)
Us Information Center in Hamburg (No. 183)
Windows to the West (No. 181)
Popularity of US Information Centers (No. 183)
Fellowship of Love (No. 177)
Bavaria's Sounding Board (No. 179)
Power of Open Forum (No 176)
Schools Kids Meet the Mayor (No. 180)

37

US Films Ride the Rails (No. 179)

The House that Youth Built (No. 179)
They Got the Bus Rolling (No. 183)
English-Language Newspaper for Schools
(No. 176) :
Good Neighbor Week (No. 175)
Democracy in Munich (No. 176)

Movies on American Life Popular (No 179)
American and German Theater (No. 179)
New Ideas for Women (No. 173)
Women in Industry (No. 176)

Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher (No. 177)
Democratization of Education (No. 176)
American Affairs Institute (No. 175)
Breaking Down the Barriers (No. 178)
German-American Convention (No. 180)
The Pfennig Parade (No. 179)

Stamping Out of Racial Prejudice Urged
(No. 180)

Hesse to Combat Intolerence (No. 182)

Special VI — Displaced Populations
— November 1950 — 45 pages

Brochure containing reprints of 18 article

concerning refugees, expellees and dis-
placed persons.

Refugee Camp (No 178)

Declaration of Rights of Displaced Persons

(No. 182)

German Refugees and Expellees (No. 176)

Emigration from Germany (No. 180)

Newsmen Survey Refugee Situation (No. 181)

Refugees Helping Themselves (No. 181)

Voluntary Assistance (No. 176)

Short Items and Editorials

Dachau Camp (No. 181)

Refugee Shoemaker (No. 177)

Expellees's Glove Factory (No. 178)

Sudetens Come Home (No. 178)

ERP House Building (No. 182)

Latvian Guards Move On (No. 179)

Refugee Handicraft (No. 157)

Displaced Persons (No. 175).

No. 185 — December 1950 — 85 pages

America Comes to Heidelberg, inside front
cover. Pictorial feature of opening of US
Information Center.

RIAS, the Truth Crusader, page 3. Article by
Aileen D. Miles, staff ‘writer, Information
Bulletin, describing effectiveness of the US-
operated radio station in Berlin, in counteract-
ing communist propaganda.

Berlin, Christmas 1950, page 7. Article by
Wilmer Freistad, chief, Public Health and
Welfare Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG, de-
scribing plans of Americans to bring cheer
to the needy.

Santa in Blue, page 9. Article by Sgt. Josephine
J. Stong, staff writer, Public Information Office,
Headquarters USAFE, describing Christmas
parties and gifts planned by US Air Force
units for German children and needy.
Leadership Training for Youth, page it. Article
by Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim,
Branch, Public Relations Division, Office of
Public ‘Affairs, HICOG, describing efforts to
overcome attitude of German youth to be
told to do something instead of being able
to act on own initiative.

An Old Farming Custom, page 15. Article by
Jack E, McKee, professor of sanitary engineer-
ing at California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, Calif., and visiting consultant,
Medical and Public Welfare Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, ' Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing danger to
public health due to German lack of sanitary
practices and education.

The Sonthofen Case, page 17. Article by Alfred
T. Schadde, staff writer, Public Relations
Branch, OLC Bavaria, describing community
action in construction of housing units in
southeastern Bavarian county.

Germany Needs Its Women, page 20. Summary
of report by Mrs. Bartlett B. Heard, vice
president of the US Young Women’s Christian
Association and visiting consultant to the
Women's Affairs Branch, Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, pointing out that too few German
women were taking active part in public life.
Man's Passions and Prejudices, page 21.
Translation of speech by Yehudi Menuhin,
American concert violinist, at recital in Berlin.
A Boost for Trade, page 23. Article by Fred
Welty, staff writer, Public Relations Division,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing
problem of German exports failing to reach
level of imports.

The Christmas Shooters, page 25. Article by
Everett W. Schoening, US resident officer in
Berchtesgaden, Bavaria, describing ancient
local custom in welcoming Christmas.

Free Artists in Free Berlin, page 27. Article
by Eline McKnight, American art patron, re-
viewing work of painters and sculpters in
Berlin.

From Huts to Houses, page 31. Article by
Alfred Gourge, staff writer, Public Relations
Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Hesse,
describing activities of group of Hungarian-
German expellees near Darmstadt in con-
structing new bricks home to replace their
original Nissen huts.

Co-Determination, page 33. Article by Lloyd
White, special adviers, Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG, explaining a system ‘of
employee-employer relations peculiar to Ger-
many.

Seeds of Understanding, page 37. Article
by William J. Caldwell, chief, Public Relations
Branch, Public Affairs Branch, OLC Bavaria,
on interview with young American farmer
spending several months in Germany.

An Art Lover's Tour, page 39. Article by Dr.
Heinz Leitermann of the German Central Tou-
rist Association, describing cultural attractions
in Germany.

World's Oldest Stained-Glass Windows, pages
42-44. Article by Elisabeth von Witzleben,
presenting historical background and features
of famous windows in Augsburg Cathedral,
with colered reproductions of the windows,
reprinted from German Review, magazine of
the German Central Tourist Association.

A Lesson to Learn, page 51. Translated tran-
script of speech by Wilhelm Kaisen, president
of the Bremen Senate, at the opening of the
US Information Center in Bremen.

An International Aspect, page 53. Addresses
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner,
before a student audience at Kiel University
Nov. 24, before a group of labor leaders and
trade union members in Hamburg Nov. 25,
and at the dedication of a new studio at Radio
Bremen Nov. 26.

Royalty Lends a Hand, page 60. Story on
woodworking firm of a former German noble-
man in making furnishings for chapel at Rhine-
Main Air Base.

Faith - Barrier to Tyranny, page 61. Address
by Dr. George N. Shuster, US state commis-
sioner for Bavaria, at Catholic Day ceremony
Sept. 1, in Passau.

Economy of Berlin, page 63. Address by Maj.
Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander in
Berlin, presenting analysis of the city’s
economy.

Berliners Elect to Remain in Berlin, page 65.
Summary of public-opinion poll.

Economic Review, page 66. Monthly review
by the Analytical Reports Branch, Program
Review Division, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, covering September and October.
Exchange Students Visit New York, page 85.
Pictorial feature.

No. 186 — January 1951 — 73 pages
Bavaria's International Look, inside front cover.
Pictorial feature of the Bavarian Youth Ring's
rally in Munich.

Zugspitze Observatory Marks Golden Jubilee,
page 2. Pictorial feature.

Campaign of Truth, page 3. Address by Edward
‘W. Barrett, assistant secretary for public
affairs, US Department of State, outlining
program.

The American Christmas Spirit, page 6. Article
by Beth Burchard, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, rounding up American activities.
Unity and Strength page 8. New Year's message
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner.
Occupation Costs, page 9. Article specially
prepared for the Information Bulletin, present-
ing summary of basic pertinent facts on costs
of the occupation to the Germans and to the
United States.

“Save Our Children”, page 11. Text of letter
to RIAS from ,,an East Zone voter,” giving
an eye-witness account of Communist pro-
paganda.

New Rules for Allied Personnel, page 12.
Summary of HICOM law governing business
activities of occupation personnel.

Germany Goes to the Movies, page 13. Article
by Haynes R. Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Branch, Public Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing program
of showing American documentary films.
“Der Monat" Outstanding in Literary, Political
Field, page 16. Review marking second anni-
versary of German-language magazine published
by the Information Service Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Berlin's Neighborhood Centers, page 17. Article
by Wilmer Freistad, chief, Public Health and
Welfare Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG, de-
scribing activities of six neighorbood centers
in Berlin.

The Birth of a City, page 21. Article by C. F.
von Rospach, deputy chief, Public Relations
Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria,
describing work of expelled citizens of
Gablonz, Czechoslovakia, in reviving their
glassware and custome jewelry industry in
Bavaria.

Home for the Wanderer, page 25. Article by
Hillard Anthony Rhoades, chief, Public Rela-
tions Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC
Hesse, reviewing activities of German woman
who managed a home near Wiesbaden for
homeless _boys.

The Big Difference, page 27. Article by Aksel

G. Nielsen, chief, Youth Activities, OLC
Wuerttemberg-Baden, summarizing two-day
youth conference | particularly contrasting

between East and West organization.
Attractions for 1951, page 29. Article by Dr.
A. Stark of the German Central Tourist
Association, outlining cultural, recreational,
industrial and community attractions in Ger-
many during year.

Cost of Schooling, page 31. Study by Wallace
H. Strevell, chief, Education Research, Educa-
tion and Cultural Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Lights for Free Berlin, page 33. Article by
John H. Gayer, communications and electrical
adviser, Berlin Element, HICOG, describing
rebuilding of electric power plant in West
Berlin.

Youth Help Run City for a Day, pages 36-39.
Pictorial and essay feature, describing success
in Bremerhaven in experiment of American
“Boys’ Day"’.idea at suggestion of US resident
officer.

Extradition Policy in US Zone, page 40. Sum-
mary of statement by US high commissioner.
New Networks for Germany, page 41. Summary
of program for construction of frequency-
modulation stations.

The Bells are Ringing, page 43. Feature on
manufacture of church bells in small com-
munity in northern Hesse.

That Man's Here Again, page 45, Summary
advising American employees on making out
their income tax returns.

Economic Review, page 48. Monthly review
by Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
covering October and November.

The Art: of Giving Thanks, page 51. Sermon
by E. Theodore Bachmann, deputy chief,
Religious Affairs Branch, Bad Nauheim.
Wanted: Publicity Campaign, page 63. Sum-
mary of ECA report advocating stimulation of
American interest in Europe.

Student Aid Assured, page 64. Summary of
statement by US high commissioner promising
HICOG's assistance to the aid program for
university students.

Big Brothers and the “Little Leaguers,"" page
73. Pictorial feature by John Zecca, US resident
officer in Mannheim, illustrating activities of
US Army unt in assisting orphan boys.

No. 187 — February 1951 — 73 pages

The Wichita Special, inside front cover. Pic-
torial feature on assistance given Mosbach,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, from Kansas city.
Landsberg, A Documentary Report, page 3.
Text of opinion by US high commissioner and
affiliated documents in clemency decision
concerning convicted German war criminals,
including:

Preface to Landsberg Documents, page 2.

Statement of US High Commissioner, page 2.

Final Decisions of US High Commissioner,

page 5.

Introduction to Clemency Board's Report,

page 57.

Biographical Background on Condemned War

Criminals, page 63.

Decisions of General Thomas T. Handy,

page 65.

38

No Conditional Unity, page 9. Statement
(translated from German) by Dr. Konrad
Adenauer, chancellor, German Federal Repub-
lic, in rejecting East Zone proposals,

Survey Exposes Soviet Zone Education, page
10. Summary of study by Public Affairs Divi-
sion, Berlin Element, HICOG, of official
literature from eastern Germany.

Detroit on the Isar, page 11. Article describing
work of US Army plant in reclaiming old and
damaged motor vehicles.

Integration on its Way, page 13. Article by
Max Zachmann, deputy chief, Displaced Popu-
lations Branch, OLG Wuerttemberg-Baden, on
assimilation of expellees and refugees into
German economy.

Youth and German Defense, page 15. Text of
letter from young German advocating inter-
nationalizing of armed forces and reply from
US high commissioner.

East Zone Press Continues Attacks, page 16.
Summary of names and invectives hurled by
Soviet Zone press against the West.
Intelligent Understanding, page 16. Address
by Mrs, John J. McCloy, wife of US high
commissioner, Jan. 9 before American Wo-
men’s Club of Berlin on her experiences in
Germany.

HICOG Houses its Employees, page 19. Article
by Dorothy Chadbourn, special HICOG feature
writer, describing the construction of apartment
houses in Frankfurt for members of US mission.
Message form America, page 24. Summary of
remarks by Wolfgang Bernhardt, Berlin youth,
after visit to United States as guests of Crusade
for Freedom.

Surveying the Occupation, page 25, Radio
broadcast by Charles M. Emerick, US resident
officer, Fuerth, Bavaria, reviewing US aims
and activities in Germany.

Food for Thought, page 27. Article by William
F, Keefe, staff writer, Public Relations Branch,
Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG,
reviewing school-feeding program.

A View of Labor, page 29. Article by Lowell
Bennett, chief, Public Relations Branch, Public
Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, re-
viewing reactions of labor leaders following
exchanges visit to the United States.

Swabia Speaks Up, page 31. Article by A. B.
Trowbridge, US resident officer, Heidenheim,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, describing establishment
of local citizen's committees.

General Taylor Leaves Berlin, page 33. Sum-
mary of departure of Maj. Gen. Maxwell D.
Taylor as US commander of Berlin and intro-
duction of his successor Brig. Gen. Lemuel
Mathewson.

Democracy Stalks the Library, page 35. Article
by Robert Behrens, director, US Information
Center, Stuttgart, reviewing innovations to
Germany libraries such as open shelves and
free lending as introduced by Americans.

A Mission of Peace, page 36. Summary of
first visit to Germany by General Dwight D.
Eisenhower as supreme commander of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Economic Review, page 39. Monthly. review
by Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
covering November. :

Exports to US Top $ 100,000,000, page 44.
Summary of export review for 1950.

A Spot of History, page 51. Review of use
Wiesbaden spa building for US Army recreation
center.

Message to German Youth, page 68. Condensed
text of radio address by Rear Admiral Charles
R. Jeffs (USN retired), US state commissioner
for Bremen.

Tomorrow's Artists, page 73. Pictorial story of
paintings by Frankfurt children under sponsot-
ship of American Friends Service Committee.

Special VII — Landsberg, A Docu-
mentary Report — Jan. 31, 1951 —
31 pages 5
Brochure reprinting documents from “ssue
No. 187, including in addition:
Laws Establishing War-Crimes Trials: London
Agreement of Aug. 8. 1945; Control Council
Law No. 10, and US Military Government
Ordinance No. 7.
Record of the Crimes, page 31. Pictorial feature
from Information Control Division's documen-
tary film “'Niirnberg’’, concerning Nazi atrocities.

MARCH 1953 _

--- Page 42 ---
No. 188 — March 1951 — 73 pages

Germany Goes on Television, inside front
cover. Pictorial story of visit of American re-
cording team.

HICOG Begins Building Bonn Housing, page 2.
Pictorial story of ground-breaking for American
apartment buildings in Bad Godesberg.

The Gift of Self-Respect, page 3. Article by
Kay Boyle, Noted American novelist and
foreign correspondent, describing activities of
Mrs. Emmi Bonhoeffer, former German ex-
changee to the United States, among refugees
in northern Germany.

The Soviet Zone Press, page 5. Article by F.
-Gardner Cox, Jr., Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing Communist control over
daily publications in eastern Germany.
Town of Two Nations, page 9. Article by Frank
J. Gates, US resident officer, Tirschenreuth
County, Bavaria, reviewing activities of resi-
dents of Hermannsreuth, divided by Czech-
German border, in building new homes on
Bavarian side after Czechs destroyed former
homes on Czech side.

Search for Truth, page 11. Address by Mrs.
John J. McCloy, wife of US high commissioner,
at meeting of group of German women's
orangizations in. Frankfurt.

Ruhr Steel and Coal for Western Defense,
page 12. Pictorial story of revival of steel
industry.

The Little Church Behind the Curtain, page 13.
Article by Maurice E. Lee, staff writer, In-
formation’ Bulletin, describing the American
Church in Berlin.

Basketball Comes Back, page 16. Article by
Capt. Frances C. Brand, assistant GYA officer,
Stuttgart Military Post, describing assistance
of US soldiers in reviving sport among Germans.
A Woman's World, page 17. Article by Beth
Burchard, staff writer Information Bulletin,
reviewing women's affairs activities in Wuert-
temberg-Baden.

Germans Guard Civil Liberties, page 21. Article
by Wilfried Saliger, chief, German Editorial
Section, Public Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, describing establish-
ment of German Civil Liberties Union.
Parade of Progress, page’ 24. Article by Ger-
hard M. Werner, executive secretary, Munich
German-American Men's Club, describing acti-
vities of German version of ,,March of Dimes"
program and in fighting poliomyelitis in
Bavaria.

Status of Denazification, page 26. Excerpt from
HICOG Quarterly Report reviewing denazifi-
cation operations in US Zone, with charts
listing fates of top Nazi leaders.

The Social Unity Party, page 29. Excerpt from
HICOG Qarterly Report describing purpose and
activities of Communist Party in Soviet Zone.
Across-the-City Exchange Begins, page 32.
Summary of exchange visits of students from
German and American schools in Wiesbaden.
School Financing, page 33. Study by Wallace
H. Strevell, chief, Education Research, Educa-
tion and Cultural Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing German
system of paying the costs of public education.
Homes Across the Seas, page 36. Article by
Edoardo Canali, International Refugee Organi-
zation, Munich, and pictorial feature by Claude
Jacoby, photographer, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, on emigration
of eastern refugees to Canada.

US Policy toward Germany Clarified, page 40.
Statement by Henry A. Byroade, director,
Bureau of German Affairs, Department of State.
The Major Responsibility, page 41. Address
by Sir Ivone Kirkpatrice, UK high commissioner
for Germany, at luncheon meeting Jan. 30 of
the Frankfurt Press Club.

Green Week, pages 46-47. Pictorial feature of
annual agricultural fair in Berlin.

Bundestag Group Sees Link with West, page
48. Summary of meeting of German parliamenty
group with US Senator Tom Connally.

The Spirit of Carl Schurz, page 49. Address by
Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high

commissioner, at Carl Schurz Society March 5.

in Bremen.
Economic Review, page 52. Monthly review by
Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
for December.

Communications System Expanding Steadily,
page 58. Summary of development with aid
of Marshall Plan funds.

MARCH 1953

Youth Aid US Air Base, page 74. Pictorial
feature of Labor Services Units at Rhine-Main
Air Base.

No. 189 — April 1951 — 73 pages
Frankiurt's Spring Fair, inside front cover.
Pictorial feature.

The Schuman Plan and Germany, page 3.
Article by Sidney H. Willner, chief, De-
cartelization and Deconcentration Division,
Office of General Counsel, HICOG, reviewing
development of the Schuman Plan and Ger-
many’s participation.
“Gewerbefreiheit” (freedom of trade or pro-
fession), page 5. Article by Vaughn Smartt,
staff writer, Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, reviewing history
of contest in Germany far and against democ-
ratic principle that individual has the right
to choose and practice the trade, business or
profession of his own desire.
‘Wooden Road to Safety, page 9. Pictorial story
by Harald Guenther, staff reporter, Public
Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLG
Bremen, on local program to teach youth to
be traffic conscious.
New Trends in Education, page 11. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, staff writer, Public Rela-
tions Divison, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
reviewing introduction and development of
modern school techniques in Germany.
Vigil on the Border, page 15. Article by Major
Warren E. Crane, executive officer, 7751st
Military Police Customs Unit, EUCOM, re-
viewing activities of US Army details assigned
to correlate German border controls.
‘World's Worst Theater, page 19. Article by
Wilfried Saliger, chief, German Editorial Sec-
tion, Public Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, reviewing the political cabaret,
a particular German night-club entertainment.
Women inGermany, page 23. Article (translated
from German) by Herta Gotthelf, executive
member, Social Democratic Party, reviewing
activities of German women in public life.
Wagner Returns to Bayreuth, page 25. Article
by Mildred A. Smith, American Consulate
General, Frankfurt, presenting of revival of
Wagner Festival.
World's Children Pledge Friendship, page 28.
Pictorial feature of presentation of awards to
members of Girl Scout Troop 43 in Berlin.
Rehabilitation for Emigration, page 29. Article
by Archie S. Lang, chief, Displaced Populations
Branch, OLG Bavaria, describing IRO schools
for teaching vocational trades to refugees.
175,000 Enter ECA Contest, page 32. Pictorial
story of paintings submitted by children
telling of assistance of Marshall Plan.
ERP Providing Homes, page 33. Article by
William T. Neel, US resident officer, Heidel-
berg, Wuerttemberg-Baden, describing housing
project in Waiblingen.
Germany Approaches National Sovereignty,
page 36. Article by Richard A. Yahraes, chief,
Petersberg-Bonn ‘Branch, Public _ Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, re-
viewing principle documents contributing to
development.
Reich May be Sued, Court Rules, page 40.
Summary of decision by US Court of Restitu-
tions Appeals concerning recovery of con-
fiscated property,
The German Viewpoint, page 41, Article by
Heinrich von Brentano, member of the German
Federal Parliament, on visit to the United
States,
Cornerstone of a Better Future, page 43.
Address (translated from German) by André
Francois-Poncet, French high commissioner for
,Germany, over Radio Munich March 14.
Invitation to a New Conscience, page 45.
Article by Maurice E. Lee, staff writer, In-
formation Bulletin, reviewing work of the
United Nation's Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Germany.
New Markets for Meat, pages 48-49. Pictorial
story of preparation of German meat products
for export.
Road to Recovery Seen in Berlin, page 50.
Summary of review of Marshall Plan assistance
to Berlin.
Economic Review, page 51. Monthly review
by Analytical Reports Branch, Program Review
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
covering January.
Third ECA Investment Program Begins, page
55. Summary of announcement of terms of Ger-
man-American program for western Germany
and Berlin.

39

A Summary of the Essential Provisions of the
Schuman Plan Treaty constituting a European
Coal and Steel Community, page 63. Text of
announcement from Paris.

Allied Communique on Revision of the Occupa-
tion Statute and Implementation of the New
York Agreements, page 65. Texts of HICOM
documents.

At Home on the Sea, page 73. Pictorial feature
of official US Navy photographs on the US
Navy Labor Service Units in Bremerhaven.

No. 190 — May 1951 — 73 pages

600,000 ‘Visitors Buy 98,000 Cars, Trucks at
Auto Show, inside front cover. Pictorial feature
by Claude Jacoby, photographer, Public Rela-
tions Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
of Frankfurt’s international exhibition.

US Women Leaders Touring Germany, page 2.
Summary of arrival of group of 11 representa-
tives women groups, for inspection survey of
Germany.

As I See America, page 3. Article by Prof.
Emst Reuter, mayor of Berlin, on impressions
of United States during tour sponsored by the
Americans for Democratic Action.

Manhunt for 6,000,000, page 7. Article by Hugh
G. Elbot, Displaced Populations Division,
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, describing
development and accomplishments of the Inter-
national Tracing Service, a three-power mis-
sing-persons bureau seeking information of
victims of Nazi terror.

Approach to Clemency Decisions, page 11. Text
of letter by John J. McCloy, US high commis-
sioner, to Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt concerning
questions on the Landsberg clemency decisions
(issue No. 187)

What are We Doing for German Youth?, page
13. Article by Haynes R. Mahoney, staff writer,
Public Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, summarizing HICOG activities
for improving conditions of German youth.

A Literary Trip to America, page 16. Pictorial
story of introduction of the German book ‘'The
America Book for German Youth,’ prepared
by various HICOG agencies and the Voice of
America.

Liberty is at Stake, page 17. Summary (trans-
lated from German) of pamphlet distributed
by the Social Democratic Party, stating party's
policy in East-West controversy.

The Face in Familiar, page 19. Article by
William F. Keefe, staff writer, Public Relations
Branch, Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element,
HICOG, describing work at studio in Berlin in
synchronizing German language into foreign-
made movie films.

Bridgebuilders in Straubing, page 22. Story by
Lt. Richard R. Canady, 6th Armored Cavalry,
stationed at Traubing, Bavaria, on local Ger-
man-American relations.

Democracy Comes to Dachau, page 23. Article
by William J. Caldwell, chief, Public Relations
Branch, Public Affairs Division; OLG Bavaria,
on development of German-American relations
through efforts of US resident officer and US
Amy officer.

Designs for Use, USA, page 26. Pictorial story
of exhibit of American home equipment in
Stuttgart.

The Citizens Meet their Government, page 27.
Article describing introduction and progress
of public forum in Ruesselsheim, Hessian in-
dustrial community, to bring toggther average
civilian and government official.

Six Points of US Policy, page 29. Address by John
J. McCloy, US high commissioner, over Radio
Munich April 25.

Schuman Plan Treaty Signed, page 31. Text of
document prepared by Office of Public Affairs,
US Department of State, as reprinted from the
Department of State Bulletin.

Freedom for Farm Women, page 36. Article by
Katharine Holtzclaw, Food and Agriculture
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
reviewing activities to free German women
from traditional drudgery of fields and kitchen
with new interests and techniques.
Classroom on Tour, page 38. Pictorial story of
visits by students of the American School in
Stuttgart to industrial plants.

Young Farmers Return, page 39. Article by
Margaret Glick, Brethren Service Commission
in Germany, on impressions of several Ger-
man youth after attending schools in the
United States.

East German Schools Sovietized, page 43. Sum-
mary of spceial HICOG survey reports.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
Modern Schools Planned, page 44. Summary of
visit of German architects to the Scandinavian
countries, under HICOG sponsorship, to study
school buildings.

Singers with a Message, page 46. Summary of
the GYA zone-wide singing contest for Ger-
man youth, with text of address by Bennjamin
J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high commis-
sioner.

Community Council Arrives, page 47, Article
by John P. Heulihan, special consultant, Com-
munity Activities Branch, Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, reviewing introduction of
community-council idea in Germany.

Berlin Film Festival, page 49. Preview of inter-
national event in Berlin.

Tide of Toys, page 50. Pictorial feature of
distribution of toys sent by the American
Legion for German orphans.

New Approach to History, page 51. Address
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner,
at the University of Mainz April 23.
Production, Employment Rising, page 53.
Monthly economic review by A. J. Cefaratti,
chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program
Review Division, Office of Ecnonomic Affairs,
HICOG.

Agreement on Relaxation of Control over Ger-
man Industry, page 64. Text of HICOM docu-
ments.

Federal Republic Plan for Implementation of
Law 27 Approved, page 67. Text of HICOM
documents for reorganization of the German
coal, iron and steel industries to meet re-
quirements of the Schuman Plan.

Europa Zug in Munich on Eve of Tour, page 73.
Pictorial story of traveling ECA exhibition.

Special VIII — The Resident Officer
— May 10, 1951 — 41 pages

Brochure containing 23 articles previously
published in Information Bulletin,
including:

Introduction, page 2. Statement by Chauncey
G. Parker, US assistant high commissioner for
operations.
Resident Officer's Bible (No. 185), page 3.
Democracy Comes to Dachau (No. 190), page 5.
Resident Officer Saves Child (No. 175), page 8.
House of Clay (No. 178), page 9.
Youth Week (No. 186), page 10.
Community Council Arrives (No. 190), page 11.
Bridgebuilders in Straubing (No. 190), page 13.
The House that Youth Built (No. 179), page 15.
US Films Ride the Rails (No. 179), page 17.
Pfennig Parade (No. 179), page 18.
Teen-age ‘Resident Officer” (from ‘’Youth Help
Run City for a Day’’, No. 186), page 19.
School Clean-Up Day (No. 181), page 20.
Good Neighbor Week (No. 175), page 22.
Town of Two Nations (No. 188), page 23.
Power of Open Forums (No. 176), page 25.
They Got the Bus Rolling (No. 183), page 27.
School Kids Meet the Mayor (No. 180), page 29.
Swabia Speaks Up (No. 187), page 31.
ERP Providing Homes (No. 189), page 33.
The Wichita Special (No. 187), page 36.
Second RO's Conference (No. 184), page 37.
Surveying the Occupation (No. 187), page 39.
Big Brothers and the “Little Leaguers" (No.
186), page 41.

No. 191.— June 1951 — 73 pages

Morocco Comes to Wetzlar, inside front cover.
Pictorial story of arrival of French troops from
North Africa for defense duties in Germany.
Goethe House Restored, page 3. Article by
Robert P. Ball, press officer, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
describing rebuilding and opening ceremony
of the boyhood home of Johann Wolfgang
Goethe in Frankfurt.

Touring the Border, page 7. Article by William
J. Caldwell, chief, Public Relations Branch,
Public Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria, sum-
marizing the findings and impressions on a
PRD-sponsored tour for news correspondents
of US resident officers along the East German
and Czechoslovak borders of Bavaria.

Armed Forces Day Celebrated, pages 12-13.
Pictorial feature.

Soviet Obstruction, page 14. Statement by
Henry A. Byroade, director, Bureau of German
Affairs, US Department of State.

US Policy in Europe, page 15. Address by
Samuel Reber, director, Office of Political
Affairs, HICOG, in Munich May 7.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

House of Neighbors, page 20. Article by Mar-
garet Day Anthon, representative of the Young
Women's Christian Association working with
the German YWCA in Berlin, describing the
activities of the neighborhood house in the
Neukoelln borough of Berlin.

Bonn Project to be Ready by Fall, page 24.
Pictorial story of progress of housing for
American employees in the Bonn area.
Present Status of Universities, page 25. Address
by Dr. James M. Read, chief, Education and
Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, over Radio Stuttgart May 7.
Refugee Glassmakers, page 27. Pictorial story
of revival of famous industry in Heidenheim,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, by refugee craftsmen
from Jena in the Soviet Zone.

Porcelaine, Old and New, page 29. Feature by
George W. Ware, chief, Vocational Education
Section, Education and Cultural Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
on German porcelain industry.

Who's Who in the Federal Cabinet, page 36.
Brief biographical sketches, written by Robert
P. Ball, press officer, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, on Chancel:
lor Konrad Adenauer and members of his
cabinet.

Building Strength against Communism, page 43.
Reprint of concluding chapter of “Confusse and
Control", brochure issued by the US Depart-
ment of State.

Eisenhower Inspects West
Pages 48-49. Pictorial feature.
A Lesson to be Learned, page 51. Article by
Mary Merchant, principal, American Element-
ary School, Frankfurt, describing program of
German and American pupils visiting the
others’ schools.

German, US Press at Schuman Plan, page 53.
Selection of typical editorials.

Output, Exports Set Records, page 55. Monthly
economic review by A. J. Cefaretti, chief,
Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, for March.
Alternative to “‘Pre-Medieval Barbarism",
page 60. Article (translated from German) by
Otto Stolz, assistant chief editor of Welt der
Arbeit (World of Labor), journal of the German
Federation of Trade Unions, in favor of Euro-
pean unity.

100,000th DP Sails for Canada, page 73. Pictor-
ial feature.

No. 192 — July 1951 — 77 pages

Maryland U. Honors US, German Leaders,
inside front cover. Pictorial story of award of
degrees in Frankfurt.

Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria, page 2.
Summary of project with assistance of Marshall
Plan funds.

Economic Prospects for Germany, page 3. Ar-
ticle by Jean Cattier, chief, ECA Special Mis-
sion to Western Germany, reviewing postwar
developments.

The America Bock, page 4. Article by Helen
McLaughlin, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
describing reception of boc presenting view
of American to German youth.

Hand of Friendship, page 7. Article by Aileen
S. Miles, press escort officer, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
summarizing the survey tour of 11 prominent
American women throughout western Germany.
Promoting German Trade, page 15. Article
written by Helen McLaughlin, staff writer,
Information Bulletin, reviewing year's opera-
tion of German-American organization to
promote German exports.

Workers Turn over Bonn Projects, page 19.~
Article summarizing roof-raising ceremony for
the American housing project in Bad Godes-
berg.

Looking Stateward, page 21. Article by Lise-
lotte Goldbeck, ‘staff writer, Information
Bulletin of interview with Magda Maier, daugh-
ter of minister president of Wuerttemberg-
Baden, on going to the United States to study
under scholarship.

Report to America, page 23. Address by John
J. McCloy, US high commissioner, from Wash-
ington June 26 over nation-wide radio network
in the United States.

Church Social Problems, page 27. Article by
Dr. Beryl R. McClaskey as excerpted from
“The History of Religious Affairs”, issued by
the Historical Division, Office of the Executive
Secretary, HICOG.

Zone Defenses,

40

High German Officials See Big Paradrop, pages
30-31. Pictorial feature of US Air Force man-
euver for group of German officials.

Stars Over West Berlin, page 32. Article by
Maurice E. Lee, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing activities of German astro-
nomical group which moved from the Soviet
Zone.

Bavarian Schools on View, page 34. Article
by Dr. Martin Mayes, educational adviser,
OLC Bavarian, reviewing program of state
school week in Munich.

Labor's Responsibilities, page 35. Address by
Harvey W. Brown, director, Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG, at labor-union convention in
Stuttgart June 11.

Free-Enterprise Principle Surveyed, page 36.
Summary of public-opinion survey by Reactions
Analysis Staff, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG.

The IVY Fourth, pages 38-39. Pictorial feature
of the US Army's Fourth Division in Germany.
Batter Up, page 40. Pictorial feature of HICOG
softball contest.

Women's Role Today, page 41. Condensed text
of address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US
assistant high commissioner, at annual con-
vention May 26 of Federation of German-
American Clubs.

Youth's Greatest Opportunity, page 45. Address
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner,
at ceremony May 25 for the laying of the
cornerstone for student home at the University
of Frankfurt.

Exports Again Top Imports, page 48. Monthly
economic review by J. Cefaratti, chief,
Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, for April
and May.

Settlement of German Debts, page 66. Text of
HICOM release.

HICOG Law No. 20, page 69. Text of statute
for US court system.

HICOG Law No. 21, page 73. Text of statute
for US restitution courts.

No. 193 — August 1951 — 73 pages

Home for Young Girls, inside front cover.
Pictorial story of Nuremberg home supported
by HICOG special-projects funds.

Brannan Urges Greater Food Production, page
2. Summary of visits of Charles F. Brannan, US
secretary of agriculture, to Germany.

Science for the Farmer, page 3. Article by Dr.
Conrad Hammer, deputy chief, Food and Agri-
culture Division, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, on problem in intensifying agricultural
production.

Back from America, page 6. Article by Louise
Conner, Exchangees Staff, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG, describing visits of German teen-
agers to the United States.

Youth at the Helm, page 9. Article by Raymond
Lascoe, US resident officer, Pforzheim, Wuert-
temberg-Baden, reviewing introduction of
American-type ‘Boys’ Day" in Pforzheim.
Memorial to Airlift Dead, page 11. Article by
Lowell Bennett, chief, Public Relations Branch,
Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element,
HICOG, describing ceremony July 10 for
unveiling monument in Berlin.

The Worker Goes to School, page 14. Article
by Joseph T. Taylor, chief, Labor Affairs Di-
vision, OLC Hesse, describing labor-union
training school at Oberursel, Hesse.

Health Problems in Bavaria, page 16. Article
by Dr. B. A. Kogan, public health adviser,
OLC Bavaria.

Resident Officers' Conference, page 17. Sum-
mary of third conference of American field
representatives.

Youth Learns Government, page 19. Article by
Herbert Graf, youth activities specialist, US
Resident Office, Giessen, Hesse, describing
introduction of American-type ‘Boys’ Day’
in Giessen. .
Berlin Festival 1951, page 21. Article by Wil-
liam Keefe, deputy chief,
Branch, Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element,
HICOG, giving prebiew of attractions schedul-
ed for month-long cultural festival.

Germany's Problems, page 38. Article (translat-
ed from German) by Paul-Henri Spaak, presi-
dent, Council of Europe, following tour of
western Germany.

Nation of Neighbors, page 39. Article by Otto
Herr, news editor and political commentator,
Radio Frankfurt, describing impressions of the
United States following two visits.

MARCH 1953

Public Relations ~

--- Page 44 ---
Germans Form Study Group, page 42. Article
by Matthew D. Smith, Jr., US. resident officer,
Dillingen, Bavaria.

The Quiz Comes to Nuremberg, page 43. Ar-
ticle describing succes of community question-
answer session introduced by US resident
officer.

Working Together, page 47. Article by Dr.
Sterling W. Brown, general director National
Council of Christians and Jews in New York,
describing progress of inter-faith groups in
Berlin.

Exports Again Exceed Imports, page 52. Month-
ly economic review by A. J. Cefaratti, chief,
Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, for May.
Humor from the Soviet Zone, page 57. Collec:
tion of jokes being told in Berlin concerning
East Zone conditions.

Why ‘‘Vopos" Desert, page 59. Summary of
survey by Public Affairs Division, Berlin Ele-
ment, HICOG.

Child's Play Becomes Woman's Work, page 23.
Article describing refugee doll-making industry
aided by HICOG special-projects fund.
Special Labor Congress, page 25. Article by
Albert H. Berman, chief, Manpower Analysis
Branch, Manpower Division, Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG, reviewing’ election of new
president of German Federation of Trade
Unions.

Junior Chamber Arrives, page 29. Article by
Eugene L. Weyland, US resident officer, Fulda,
Hesse, describing founding of junior chambers
of commerce and their meeting jor international
understanding.

Books for Bayreuth, page 31. Article by Donald
S. Root, US Resident officer, Bayreuth, Ba-
varia, telling of inauguration of ‘‘traveling
library’’ to serve neighboring communities with
facilities.

Berlin Nutrition Program, page 33. Article by
Margaret Fedde, nutrition specialist, Food and
Agriculture Division Office of Economic Af-
fairs, HICOG, and Dr. Erwin P. Brauner, chief,
Public Health Branch, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing child feeding program in
the Berlin schools.

From Nissen Huts to New Homes, pages 36-37.
Pictorial feature of building homes on former
German armed forces bases to house refugee
Propaganda “Protest Answered by HICOG,
page 61. Text of letter by Eric G. Gration,
staff secretary, Office of Executive Secretary,
HICOG, citing army-training expansion in
Soviet Zone.

Declaration of Friendship, page 63. Summary
of resolution adopted by US Congress.
Proposal for Terminating State of War with
Germany, page 65. Text of letter by President
Truman requesting congressional action.
Reorganization of Germany's Iron and Steel
Industry, page 68. Text of orders by Combined
Steel Group, HICOM, transfering assets to new
companies.

Bavaria to Repeat ‘School Week", page 73.
Pictorial feature of exhibition in Munich.

No. 194 — September 1951 — 89 pages

Mannheim Information Center Formally Dedicat-
ed, inside front cover. Pictorial feature.

New Consulate General in Hamburg, page 2.
Pictorial story of opening of new office build-

ing.
The Forbidden City, page 3. Article by Haynes
R. Mahoney, press officer, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
activities and impressions of youth from
eastern Germany visiting West Berlin and
seeing surprising progress made in the demo-
cratic section, with excerpts from interview
given large group of Communist youth by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner.

“I Hate Communism", page 9. Interview by
Henry A. Goodman, staff writer, Public Rela-
tions Branch, Public Affairs Division, Berlin
Element, HICOG, with LeRoy Everett, Amer-
ican Negro who observed Communist activi-
ties in East Berlin.

Hesse's Elder Statesman Views Life in America,
page 12. Article by Alfred W. Gourge, staff
writer, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs
Division, OLC Hesse, summarizing impressions
of former minister president after visit to the
United States.

Evangelical Bridge, page 13. Article by James
C. Flint, religious affairs adviser, Public Af-
fairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, review-

MARCH 1953

ing the German Evangelical Church Congress
in Berlin. e

Law Books for Universities, page 16. Article
describing purpose of presentation of Amer-
ican law books to German universities as gift
of the HICOG special-projects » program.
Mutual Understanding, page 17. Article by Wil-
liam J. Hoffman, US resident officer, Obe:
taunus and Usingen, Hesse, reviewing activi-
ties and results of German-American program
in Oberursel.

German-Jewish Relations, page 19. Interview
(translated from German) of interview given
by Prof. Theodor Heuss, president of the
Federal Republic of Germany, for a German-
language refugee publication in New York.
Education in Citizenship, page 21. Article’ by
Walter Galling, US resident officer, Schwae-
bisch-Gmuend, Wuerttemberg-Baden, on series
of community programs presenting basic el
ments of civics and the citizen's responsibil
ties.

1,442,647 See “Train of Europe", page 23. Sum-
mary of visit of the traveling OEEC exhibit
in Berlin.

TV Comes to Berlin, page 25. Summary of the
demonstration by American companies of tele-
vision.

Berliners Acclaim 1936 Olympic Games Star,
page 27. Article by Dwight Schear, correspond-
ent for Stars and Stripes, covering visit of
Jesse Owens with the Harlem Globetrotters.
Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth to Peace and
Unity, page 29. Article written by Liselotte
Goldbeck, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
reviewing activities of the international youth
summer camp on the Lorelei Rock above the
Rhine River.

Tokens of Friendship, page 35, Summary of
voluntary assistance given by Germans to the
relief of persons left homeless by the Kansas
floods in the United States.

Search for Looted Art, page 37. Article by
Ardelia R. Hall, arts and monuments officer,
Division of Overseas Information Centers, US
Department of State, on hunt for cultural ar-
ticles which have been missing since being
taken by the Nazis from occupied countries,
as reprinted from the Department of State
Bulletin.

Dream-Come-True House, page 43, Article by
Helen McLaughlin, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, on dedication of girls home and com-
munity center sponsored by Anna Haag in
Stuttgart, with text of Mrs. Haag’s address
‘Marshall Plan and the Germans’’.

Homes for Better Living, page 49. Article de-
scribing the American exhibition in Hanover,
Lower Saxony, on modern houses and equip-
ment.

Today's Coal Situation, page 63. Statement by
Benjamin J. B. Buttenwieser, US assistant high
commissioner.

The Radical Right, page 65. Excerpt from the
Socialist Reich Party, a neo-Nazi group in
Germany.

Employment at All-Time High, page 69. Month-
ly economic review by Jack Stone, deputy
chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Di-
vision, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
for June.

German Newsmen Tour Army Basis, page 72.
Pictorial feature.

German in World Defense, page 73. Address by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, at
third resident officers conference in Frank-
furt July 16.

Reply to Friendship Resolution, page 76. Sum-
mary of announcement of Soviet official com-
ment to US Congress’ resolution ‘‘Declaration
of Friendship’.

Freedom to Meet, page 81. Address by Dr.
James R. Newman, US state commissioner for
Hesse, at youth convention jn Fritzlar, Hesse,
Aug. 17.

Stateless Europeans Enlist, page 89. Pictorial
story of departure of first recruits in US Army
for United States.

No. 195 — October 1951 — 77 pages

Young Thespians, inside front cover. Pictorial
feature of youth class at the US Information
Center in Berlin.

Foreign. Ministers’ Declaration on Germany,
page 2. Text of declaration (note page 28).
Phoenix at Reichswald, page 3. Article by
Cherry Lou Fellner, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, on new farming settlement in north-
western’ Germany. z :

41

German Scientific Research, page 7. Article by
Helen McLaughlin, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, on development under Military Se-
curity Commission.

Keeping Youth on Farms, page 11. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, press officer, Public Re-
lations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, on program to improve conditions for
young farmers.

Friendship Camps, page 13, Article by Mary
M. Coppeds, International Work Camps, Breth-
ren Service Commission, Kassel, describing
activities of students from other countries
spending summer in reconstruction work in
Germany.

Student. Participation at Berlin's Free Univer-
sity, page 17. Article by Carl G. Anthon,
higher education adviser, Public Affairs Di-
vision, Berlin Element, HICOG,

Labor's Unfinished Tasks, page 21. Article by
Harvey W.. Brown, retiring director, Office
of Labor Affairs, HICOG, pointing out progress
which must be made by German labor unions.
Czechoslovakia a Concentration Camp, Refugee
Official Says, page 23. Summary written by
Wilfried Saliger, chief, German editorial Sec-
tion, Public Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, of statements given by
Maximilian Jiri Lom, refugee former official
of the Czechoslovakia ministry of foreign
trade, at press conference in Frankfurt.
Nation of Youth, page 25. Article by Wilfried
Saliger, chief, German Editorial Section, Public
Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing study visit to the United
States under sponsorship of the US Department
of State.

MDAP Aid to Denmark, page 27. Pictorial story
of presentation of planes under Mutual Defense
Assistance Program.

Communique on European Unity, page 26. Text
of communique issued by foreign ministers of
France, United Kindom and the United States
in Washington Sept. 14.

Report on Germany, page 29. Text by state-
ment by John J. McCloy, US high commis-
sioner, before House of Representatives com-
mittee.

Attitude Toward Jews, page 34. Declaration
{translated from German) of the Federal Re-
public of Germany.

Hitchhiking Through America, page 35. Article
{translated from German) by Otto Bear, HICOG
student at Pennsylvania State College, on
experience of seeing the United States.

Hell on Wheels, pages 40-41. Pictorial feature
of Second Armored Division stationed in
Germany.

New Gadgets for 1952, page 42. Pictorial story
of inventors fair in Munich.

Erksdorf, Model of Cooperation, page 43. Ar-
ticle by James B. Peabody, US resident of-
ficer, Marburg, Hesse, on integration of native
and refugee populations of small Hessian com.
munity.

Partners in Sacrifice, page 45. Address by
Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high
commissioner, at opening of Frankfurt fair
Sept. 2.

Fellowship Between Schools, page 47. Article
by Capt. Frances C. Brand, assistant GYA of-
ficer, Stuttgart Military Post, on student ex-
change between American and German schools
in Stuttgart.

Industrial Activities Slacken, page 49. Article
by A. J. Cefaratti, chief, Analytical Reports
Branch, Program Division, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG, for August.

America’s Faith in Europe, page 55. Address
by Dr. Frederick H. Burkhardt, deputy director,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, at Inter-
national Youth Camp Sept. 1 on the Lorelei.
US Replies to Czech Notes, page 58. Text of
note concerning refugee trait.

They Rode ‘Freedom Train", page 59. Pictorial
story of the train and riders who fled from
Czechoslovakia into western Germany.
Status of Reparations, Restitution and External
Assets Clarified by High Commission, page 73.
Text_of HICOM statute.

WAC's in Bivouac, page 77. Pictorial feature
on field maneuvers.

No. 196 — November 1951 — 77 pages

Mannheim GYA Center in German Hands,
inside front cover. Pictorial story of transfer.
Coal Productivity, page 2. Statement by
Michael Harries, chief, ECA Special Mission

INFORMATION. BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
to Western Germany, offering ECA assistance
to increase production of Ruhr mines to reduce
import.

“Glick aufl", page 3, Article by John J. Slo-
cum, chief, ECA and Economics Branch, Public
Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, describing inspection tour of Ruhr
mines.

Common Problems — Common Front, page 7.
Article by Helen McLaughlin, staff writer,
Information Bulletin, summarizing international
women's conference at Hindelang, southern
Bavaria.

Berlin Youth Rebufi Bavarian Reds, page 13.
Article by Francis C. Lindaman, chief, District
Il, Field Division, OLC Bavaria, reviewing
tour by youth group from West Berlin in
northern Bavaria to answer Communist allega-
tions.

Guarding Human Rights, Today, page 16. Ad-
dress by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US as-
sistant high commissioner, at human-rights
conference Oct. 17 in Limburg, Hesse.

Defense of Common Freedom, page 17. Address
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner,
at dinner Nov. 3 of Bremerhaven Chapter of
the National Defense Transportation Associa-
tion.

Berlin's Cultural Festival, page 20. Article by
William H. Conlan, Berlin Element, HICOG,
reviewing American contributions to the Berlin
festival.

Bavarian's Law Library, page 25. Article re-
viewing service of American-stocked library
in Munich during its first year.

Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow, page 29. Ar-
ticle by Dorothea Lensch, director or recrea-
tion, Portland, Ore., and visiting consultant
on recreation, youth and community activities,
OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, describing recrea-
tional program inaugurated in Mannheim.
Young Citizens Held Forum, page 32. Article
by Wilfried Saliger, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing get-together in Frankfurt
of new voters and city officials to discuss
municipal affairs.

Health and Human Relations, page 33. Article
by Dr. Muriel W. Brown, and Donata Helmrich-
Hardt, conference official, describing third
annual international conference held in Hid-
desen, North Rhine-Westphalia.

A Bridge for Dieburg, page 35. Article by
Wemer E. Schroeder, staff writer, US Resident
Office, Dieburg, Hesse, describing activities
of US Army unit in building bridge for German
farmers as gesture of German-American rela-
tions.

Exercise Combine, pages 37-40. Pictorial feature
of US Armed Forces maneuvers.

Selling Freedom, page 41. Address by Henry
Ford’ II, president, Ford Motor Company, in
New York after survey trip in Germany.

Free Radio is a Blessing, page 44. Address by
Rear Admiral Charles R. Jeffs, USN retired,
US state commissioner for Bremen, at dedica-
tion Oct. 15 of new radio directional antenna.
The Friendly Revolution of Heftrich, page 45.
Article by Fred Welti, press officer, Public
Relations Division, Office of Public’ Affairs,
HICOG, describing results of land consolida-
tion program in central Hesse farm district.
Director. of Berlin Element Retires, page 48.
Summary of departure of Howard P. Jones.
Proposal for Free Election, page 51. Statement
(translated from German) by Dr. Konrad
Adenauer, chancellor of the Federal Republic
of Germany, before Federal Parliament Sept.
27, commenting of attitude toward Communist
proposals.

Germans, Americans Stage Big ‘Good Neighbor
Week", pages 60-61. Pictorial feature of event
in Munich.

Production Slump:Ends, page 62. Monthly eco-
nomic review by A. J. Cefaratti, chief, Ana-
lutical Reports Branch, Program Division, Of-
fice of Economic Affairs, HICOG, for August.
Orphans Enjoy “Oktoberfest” Treat, page 77.
Pictorial story of outing given two groups of
orphans by the Munich Masonic Club. :

No. 197 — December 1951 — 73 pages

Exchangees from America, inside front cover.
Pictorial story of arrival of group of America
exchange students in Germany.

Termination of the State of War with Germany,
page 2.~Text of proclamation by President
Truman.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Impact of Exchanges Program, page 3. Article
by Anwe Turner, public liaison officer, Ex-
changes Staff, and James G. Rogers, reports
officer, both of the Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, reviewing the activities and results
of the HICOG and Department of State ex-
changes program.

Germany and Europe, page 9. Article by Lise-
lotte Goldbeck, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, summarizing annual conference of
the European Movement in Hamburg.
Information Uncensored, page 13. Article by
Jean Kinnaird, staff| writer, Information
Bulletin, reviewing letters of appreciation from
Germans for availability of the US Information
Center in Germany.

Communique of the Foreign Ministers’ Con-
ference in Paris, page 18. Text of communique.
Seminary in Democracy, page 19. Article by
Dr. Harry L. Franklin, assistant chief, Political
Affairs Division, OLC Hesse, reviewing found-
ing and progress of the Seminar for Politics
in Frankfurt.

More Homes for Germans, page 21. Article by
Bernard Wagner, Housing and Home Finance
Agency, Division of Housing Research,
Washington, and special consultant, ECA Hous-
ing Development Projects for Western Ger-
many, reviewing ECA-sponsored contest for
German designs for modern low-cost projects
in several communities.

Ethnic Germans Emigrate, page 25. Article pre-
pared by George Wellde, public relations of-
ficer, US Displaced Persons Commission in
Frankfurt, describing emigration processing.
Bremen Helps its Youth, page 29. Article by
Cherry Lou’ Fellner, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing youth recreational program.
Meeting “Their Government”, page 31. Article
by Paul R. Phillips, US resident officer, Huen-
feld, Hesse, describing community program of
group visiting Bonn and observing Federal
Parliament in action.

Refugee Enterprise, page 33. Article by Herman
Frankel, US resident officer, Aichach, Bavaria,
describing revival of small industry firm by
group of refugees from Czechoslovakia.
Bavaria Was Never Like This, page 35. Pictorial
story, reprinted from Erding Journal, of two
teen-age Bavarian farmers on exchange visit
to the United States.

HICOG Moves to Bonn, page 37. Article by
Henry A. Goodman, press officer, Public Re-
lations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, describing new American apartment
houses in Bad Godesberg and movement of
HICOG personnel from Frankfurt.

Coal in Postwar Germany, page 39. Statement
by US Element, Coal Control Group, HICOM.
Industrial Production Again Up,
Monthly economic review by A. J. Cefaratl
chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Di
vision, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
for September. .
Touch Football, page 73. Pictorial story of
HICOG-press contest.

No. 198 — January 1952 — 65 pages
Music Students Stage Second International
Festival, inside front cover. Pictorial feature
of gathering representing 20 nationalities in
Munich,

Bonn — the National Village, page 2. Article
by Robert P. Ball, press officer, Bonn-Peters-
berg Branch, Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, describing current
German capital. .
Germany's Future, page 7. Address by John
J. McCloy, US high commissioner, Dec. 17 at
a plenary session of the Wuerttemberg-Baden
state legislature.

Government and Politics of Berlin, page 11.
Article by Dr. Elmer Plischke, special historian,
Historical Division, Office of the Executive
Secretary, HICOG, condensing forthcoming
historical monograph.

Youth for International Union, page 16. Pictorial
feature by Robert L, Ouverson, US resident
officer at Erbach, Hesse, on gathering at Erbach.
New Year's Message, page 17. Address by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, over
RIAS on New Year's Eve.

Progress in Germany, page 19. Address by
Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, retired assistant
US high commissioner, Dec. 6 before the Cham-
ber of Commerce of the State of New York.
American Friends in Germany, page 23. Special
feature by F. J. Dallett, Jr., HICOG duty of-
ficer, on work of American Friends Service
Committee in Geremany.

42

EUCOM Dollars Help Economy, page 26. Re-
view showing that one-fourth of earnings of
American occupational personnel went into
Germany economy.

We Live in a Glass House, page 27. Arficle
by Nancie Lee Healy, wife of US resident of-
ficer at Dillenburg, Hesse, describing typical
life and activities of resident officer's family.
Cooperation Solving Bremen's Traific Problems,
page 30. Review of cooperative activities of
local and occupational public safety officials.
Labor Union Advisers Kept Busy, page 31.
Review of assistance of American labor officials
at Berlin industrial exposition.

Industrial Exposition Highly Successful, page
33. Review of Berlin exposition.

Test of Democracy, page 35. Excerpt of address
by John J. McCloy, US high commissioner,
Dec. 10 at US resident officers’ conference in
Frankfurt.

Dueling in Universities, page 37. Condensed
translation of series of articles in Die Neue
Zeitung describing postwar activities.
Economy Shows Greater Vitality, page 43.
Monthly economic review by A. J. Cefaratti,
chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG, covering October
and November.

Plans for Terminating the International Autho-
rity for the Ruhr, page 61. Text of announce-
ment and six-power protocol.

Youth Hostel in Neckar Valley, page 65. Pic-
torial story.

No. 199 — February 1952 — 65 pages

28th Division Welcomed to Germany, inside
front cover. Pictorial story.

The Southwest State, page 3. Article by Chester
B. Lewis and Robert D. King, Political Affairs
Division, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, review-
ing consolidation of three postwar states of
Wuerttemberg-Baden, Wuerttemberg-Hohenzol-
lern and South Baden.

German Women Learn about UN, page 8. Re-
view of four meetings in Wuerttemberg-Baden
for presenting UNESCO activities to women
leaders.

Plan for Safer Highways, page 9. Resume of
report by Joseph L. Lingo, director of Public
Safety Institute, Purdue University, Lafayette,
Ind., and John M. Gleason, chief of police,
Greenwich, Conn., on survey as HICOG visit-
ing consultations of traffic conditions and pos-
sible improvements in Germany.
Missionaries in Fritzlar, page 13. Article by
Earl H. Luboeansky, US resident officer at
Fritzlar-Homberg, Hesse, on program for inter-
national fellowship.

New Schools Arriving, page 17. Article by.
Liselotte Goldbeck, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, reviewing activities to modernize
school buildings in Germany.

Employment and Wage Guide for Household
Help, page 19. Summary prepared’ by Office
of Labor Affairs, HICOG, explaining German
and occupation regulations covering domestic
services.

Role of the University, page 21. Address by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, Jan.
21 at University of Freiburg.

Cooperative Community, pages 24-25. Pictorial
feature by James F,. Keim, adviser on rural
youth reconstruction, OLC Wuerttemberg-
Baden, on new refugee settlement.
Significance of Moral Values, page 28. Sum-
mary of address by Dr. George F. Donovan,
public affairs adviser, HICOG, at a human--
rights conference Jan. 15 in Frankfurt.
Output Rises to New High, page 29. Monthly
economic review by Commercial Attache Sec: _
tion, HICOG, covering December.

RIAS Scores with East Zone Program, page 33.
Review of letter-response to daily informational,
program.

Big Ullstein Plant Restored, page 38. Review
of return of Germany's largest publishing house
to original owners. .
Index, page 48. Listing for article and features
published in the Information Bulletin during
1950 and 1951.

Armed Forces Play Santa to Young and Old,
page 65. Pictorial feature on Christmas festi-
vals.

No. 200 — March 1952 — 53 Pages

Krefeld Likes US Ideas, inside front cover.
Pictorial feature on effect of citizens group
after exchange-program visit to United ‘States.

MARCH 1953

--- Page 46 ---
Rediscovering the New World, page 2. Speech
(translated from German) by Karl Amold,
minister president of North Rhine-Westphalia,
at opening of US information center in Essen.
Ruhr's Information Center, page 3. Review of
opening of Essen center.

AN is Not Well in Soviet Zone, page 6. Re-
view of ‘'Self-criticism'’ campaign as seen from
eastern German publications.

Young East Zone Skeptics, page 7. Resume of
survey by Reactions Analysis Staff, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, among teenagers
from Soviet Zone.

Freedom Also for the Soviet Zone, page 10.
Statement (translated from German) by Jakob
Kaiser, federal minister for all-German affairs,
on Federal Republic's policy toward eastern
Germany.

Symbol of Appreciation, page 11. Article by
Wilfried Saliger, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing German program to present
token of appreciation to peoples of other coun-
tries for postwar assistance to Germany.
German Women Evaluate Visits to the States,
page 13. Review by Liselotte Goldbeck, staff
writer, Information Bulletin, of conference
Feb. 18-19 in Frankfurt of women who had
visited United States under exchange program.
Toward German Unity, page 15. Address by
Samuel Reber, director, office of Political Af-
fairs, HICOG, March 7 at Academy for Politics
in Berlin.

“Wir Alle’ (We All), page 19. Article by Tom
A. Noonan, youth and community activities
adviser, office of Public Affairs, HICOG, re-
viewing development of monthly youth leaders’
magazine.

ECA Housing Exposition Goes on Tour, page 22.
Description of collection of models and plans
for ECA competition for low-cost housing
projects.

Parallels and Contrasts, page 23. Address
(translated from German) by Dr. Theodor Heuss,
president of the Federal Republic of Germany,
Feb. 7 at the Carl Schurz anniversary dinner
in Bremen.

Germany's Defense Contribution, page 27. Sum-
mary and text of report of Executive Bureau
of NATO's Temporary Council Committee.
The Prize Package: Freedom, page 29. Review
by Jean Kinnaird, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, of lecture tour of Edith Sampson,
Chicago attorney and former alternate US
delegate to the United Nations, on UN aims
and activities.

Annual Trade Almost Balanced, page 31.
Monthly economic review prepared by Com-
mercial Attache Section, HICOG, covering
January.

Musical Ties, page 47. Description by George
W. Bartels, US resident officer in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, on tour of Karlsruhe singing group
to France.

Editors Inspect Barracks, page 53. Pictorial
story of escorted tour by Augsburg newsmen
of nearby US Army installation.

No. 201 — April 1952 — 49 pages

American School on Rhine, inside front cover.
Pictorial story of opening of school at Bad
Godesberg.

Our Foreign Policy 1952 — Germany, page 2.
Excerpt from brochure issued by US Depart-
ment of State.

Library on Wheels, page 3. Article by Liselotte
Goldbeck, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
on inauguration of first bookmobile by US
Information Center in Mannheim.

Germany's Federal Government, page 7. Article
by Robert P. Ball, press officer, Bonn-Peters-
berg, Information Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, comparing German system
with US governmental operations.
Democratization Progressing, page 14. Sum-
mary of conference of group of American
radio and newspaper executives with John J.
McCloy, US high commissioner.

Press of Two Nations, page 15. Condensed
translation of talks by Adalbert Schmidt, po-
litical and economic affairs .editor, Giessener
Freie Presse, Giessen, Hesse, on his visit to
United States.

Germany's Foreign Relations, page 17. Review
(translated from German by Dr. Konrad
Adenauer, chancellor of Federal Republic, at
annual meeting March 25 of the Foreign Press
Association in Bad Godesberg.

MARCH 1953

The Struggle for German Unity, page 19. Ar-
ticle by Henry B. Cox, Office of German
Public Affairs, US Department of State,
Washington, as reprinted from Department of
State Bulletin.

Last DP Family Sails, page 25. Review of de-
parture of last. European refugee family to
resettle in the United States. ;
Humor from Soviet Zone, page 27. Collection
by Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element,
HICOG, of latest jokes heard in eastern
Germany.

Future Lawyers, page 31. Article by Richard
J. Jackson, legal adviser, OLC Wuerttemberg-
Baden, on training of new lawyers.

German Economy Retains Position, page 32.
Monthly economic review prepared by Com-
mercial Attache Section, HICOG, covering
February.

Changing the Guard, page 49. Pictorial feature
on US Army detachment’s taking over monthly
guard detail at Spandau Prison in Berlin from
Soviets.

No. 202 — May 1952 — 33 pages

Torchers for Unity Pierce “Iron Curtain",
inside front cover. Pictorial story on youth
demonstration in northern Bavaria for European
unity.

Cornerstone Laid for Bremen Center, page 2.
Pictorial story of construction of new voca-
tional education center.

Frontier School, page 3. Article by Haynes R.
Mahoney, information officer, Public Affairs
Regional Center, Nuremberg, on construction
with HICOG assistance of school building in
northern Bavarian village of Ostheim.
Women in Hesse, page 5. Article by Betty
Knapp, Regional Public Affairs Office, US
Consulate General, Frankfurt, on women's af-
fairs activities in Hessian state.

The Three Great Steps, page 9. Address by
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner, May
10, at dedication of new school at Bernkastel,
Rhineland-Palatinate.

The Council of Europe, page 11. Review re-
printed from the Department of State Bulletin.
General Eisenhower's Farewell to Germany,
pages 16-17. Pictorial review of last visit of
departing SHAPE commander-in-chief.
HICOG Field Offices Complete Activities in
June, page 18. Review of closing of state and
country offices under HICOG.

American Ideas Invigorating, page 20. Story
on experience of 6,000th exchange to go to the
United States.

Slight Spring Expansion, page 29. Monthly
economic review prepared by Commercial At-
tache Section, HICOG, covering March.
Airliner Inspected for Soviet Damage, page 33.
Pictorial story of results of attach by two
Soviet fighter planes on Air France passenger
plane near Berlin.

No. 203 — June 1952. — 33 pages

Model Classrooms Established in Offenbach,
Hesse, inside front cover. Picorial story.
“Befit_ a Free State’, page 2, Statement by
Dean Acheson, US secretary of state, at. press
conference May 26 in Bonn.

Beginning a New Relationship, page 3. Article
by Creston B. Mullins, public liaison Branch,
Information Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, on signing of Contractual Agreement
and developments leading to event.

General Agreement, page 4. Text of ‘‘Conven-
tion on the Relations between the Three
Powers and the Federal Republic of Germany”.
The Chancellor's Opinion, page 10. Radio
interview (translated from German) given by
Chancellor Adenauer to Ernst Friedlaender,
leading German political columnist.

Cultural Integration, page 11. Article by Dr.
Martin Mayes, cultural adviser, Division of
Cultural Affairs, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, on development and program of cul-
tural activities in Germany since war.
HICOG Builds for the Future. Special insert
illustrating the housing projects constructed
for the US mission in Germany.

America's Good Friends, page 17. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, information officer, Public
Affairs Regional Office, Nuremberg, on two-
day conference in Hof of exchangees who have
retumed from the United States.
Coordinating History Books, page 19. Article
by Wilfried Saliger, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, reviewing joint American-German

43

historians’ conference May 12-23 in Brunswidc.
Official. Text of Summaries of Conventions
Drafted under Contractual Agreement, page 27.
Barricade of Radio Berlin, page 33. Pictorial
Story of actions by British authorities in Berlin.

No. 204 — July 1952 — 33 pages

Bookmobile of Berlin's America House, inside
front cover. Pictorial story.

Walter J. Connelly os High Commissioner,
page 2. Biographical sketch.

The McCloys Bid “Auf Wiedersehen!"', to
Germany, page 3. Article by Robert Lochner,
chief Press Branch, Information Division, Of-
fice of Public Affairs, HICOG, summarizing
farewell tour of retiring high commissioner.
ERP Benefits to Germany, page 10. Translation
of radio address by Franz Bluecher, federal
vice chancellor and minister for ERP affairs.
Truth and Freedom, page 11. Address by Dean
Acheson, US secretary of state, at dedication
of American Memorial Library in Berlin.
Education for All, page 13. Address by Michael
S. Harris, chief, MSA Special Mission to Ger-
many for Economic Cooperation, June 4 at
Berg-Lehrlingsheim, Bochum-Hordel, . North
Rhine-Westphalia.

School Village on the Bergstrasse, page 15.
Description of modern educational project near
Darmstadt. :

Louise Childs, pages 16-17. Pictorial feature
of American social worker in Berlin.
Cultural Articles Returned, page 18. Review
of US efforts to stored recovered art and
museum property to Germany.

Rhineland America House, page 19. Article
by James G. Rogers, US information officer,
Rhineland-Palatinate, on opening of US In-
formation Center in Coblenz.

Tuebingen America House, page 21. Review of
opening of US Information Center in Tuebingen.
Homes for Refugees, page 33. Pictorial story
ECA/MSA housing development near Nurem-
berg.

No. 205 — August 1952 — 33 pages

New Fire Brigade Flag Presented Ooverdrees,
inside front cover. Pictorial story of ceremony
in western North Rhine-Westphalian village.
The Sixth Column, page 2. Commentary
(translated from German) by Ernst Fried-
laender, German political writer, against anti-
American attitude.

Darmstadt Survey, page 3. Article by Dr. Frank
H. Jonas, assistant editor, Information Bulletin,
on extensive community survey in Darmstadt.
War of Words, page 7. Article by Helen
McLaughlin, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
reviewing third congress of International
Federation of Free Journalists in Berlin.
New Spirit in Old Prisons, page 9. Article by
Wilfried Saliger, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, on current condition of prisons in
Germany.

Free University Grows, page 13. Review of
start of construction of library-lecture hall of
Berlin's Free University.

Fulbright Agreement, page 15. Summary of
signing of agreement providing for exchange
of professors and students between the United
States and Germany.

‘A Day with the US Marines in Mehlem, pages
16-17. Pictorial feature.

Life in the Soviet Zone, page 18. Statement
(translated from Russian) by Eugeny Sergeyevich
Volchansky, refugee Soviet engineer.

RIAS' Effectiveness Evident in Poland, page 19.
Resume of interview with refugee on circus
performance in Warsaw.

Text of Communique of London Debt Con-
ference, page 32.

Berlin's Cultural Festival, page 33. Pictorial
preview.

No. 206 — September 1952 — 33 pages

New Home for the International Tracing Service,
inside front cover. Pictorial story of dedica-
tion of new building at Arolsen, Hesse.

New Swimming Pool Rebufis East Taunts,
page 2. Pictorial story of contra-Communist
project at Helstedt, Lower Saxony.

Salzgitter, page 3. Article by John G. Korman,
information officer, Public Affairs Field Center,
Hanover, on US efforts to assist natives and
refugees in overcrowded area of eastern Lower
Saxony.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Soldier Trio Share Valuable Instruments, page
6. Description of incident in better German-
American relations in Stuttgart.

House of International Citizenship, page 7.
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney, information

officer, Public Affairs Field Center, Nurem-
berg, on multi-national cultural center in
Nuremberg.

Freedom of Opportunity, page 9. Resume of
panel discussion in Stuttgart on democratic
program for privilege of individual in trade,
business or profession.

The Professions, the Universities ... and the
Future, page 11. Review by Dr. J. J. Oppen-
heimer, consultant for higher education, Divi-
sion of Cultural Affairs, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, on four-nation conference in
Koenigswinter.

Understanding through General Held, page 15.
Article (translated from German) in_ the
Neue Waiblinger Kreiszeitung May 17 on
voluntary work of US Army unit to help a
German orphanage in Waiblingen, Baden-
Wuerttemberg.

Humor from Soviet Zone, page 18. Collection
of jokes by Information Branch, Berlin Ele-
ment, HICOG.

Reenactment of the Linse Kidnaping, page 33.
Pictorial story depicting abduction of Dr. Wal-
ter Linse, member of the investigating com-
mittee of Free Jurists of the Soviet Zone, by
an East-Zone gang in Berlin.

No. 207 — October 1952 — 33 pages
Industry Exposition in Berlin, inside front
cover. Pictorial story.

Insistence on Free German Elections Reiterated,
page 2, Text of identical notes of the United
States, United Kingdom and France Sept. 23
to the Soviet Union.

Educational Research in Germany, page 3.
Article in two parts by Dr. Frank H. Jonas,
assistant editor, Information Bulletin, on new
graduate school in education Frankfurt: Part 1,
“The Institute for International Education
Research."

The Legacy of Carl Schurz, page 7. Address
by Walter J. Donnelly US high commissioner,
Sept. 17 at 100th anniversary ceremony in
Frankfurt.

Currency Reform after Four Years, page 9.
Article by Dr. Rodney C. Loehr, special
historian, Historical Division, Office of the
Executive Secretary, HICOG, reviewing the
results of the introduction of new German
currency in 1948.

German-American Friendship . for the Price of
a Stamp, page 13. Article by Paul R. Phillips,
information officer, Public Affairs Field Cen-
ter, Kassel, on German-American friendship
between Larned, Kan., in the United States
and the north Hegsian town of Witzenhausen
in Germany.

For a Free and United Germany, page 15.
Address (translated from German) by Dr. Her-
mann Ehlers, president of the German Federal
Parliament, Sept. 7 on the third anniversary
of Germany's legislative body.

Cultural Festival in Berlin, page 18. Review of
second annual display of Western cultural
attractions,

European Weeks in Passau, page 19. Review
of first international festival in ancient city
on border of the Iron Curtain.
Soviet Zone Delegation Pays Brief
Bonn, page 33. Pictorial story.

No. 208 — November 1952 — 33 pages
International Garden Party for Orphans, inside
front cover. Pictorial feature of American-
French-German fund-raising event.

Western Allied Notes Reject Soviet Charges,
page 2. Text of identical notes from Western
high commissioners Nov. 2 disproving Soviet
allegations of terrorist activities.

Public Affairs Programs - Grassroots Opera-
tions, page 3. Article by Paul R. Phillips, in-
formation officer, Public Affairs Field Center,
Kassel, on transition of community activities
from former resident-officer sponsorship to
current field-center guidance.

Cultural Envoys in Uniform, page 7. Review of
success of US Seventh Army Symphony
Orchestra in western Germany.

Educational Research in Germany, page 9.
Article by Dr. Frank H. Jonas, acting editor,
Information Bulletin, educational research in
Germany: Part 2 ‘The International Workshop
on Educational Psychology.”

Visit to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Germany's Population Problems, page 13.
Article by Liselotte Goldbeck, feature editor,
Information Bulletin, summarizing official Ger-
man statements and reports.

Where Freedom Begins, page 16. Address
(translated from German) by Jakob Kaiser,
federal minister for all-German affairs, to the
people of the Soviet Zone.

By Streetcar to Freedom, page 17. Statement
(translated from Russian) by Pavel Aleksan-
drovich Bondarchuk, refugee Russian Army
junior sergeant, on his flight to political
asylum.

Freiburg America House, page 18. Review of
opening of US Information Center in Freiburg,
Baden-Wuerttemberg.

Pforzheim America House, page 19. Review of
opening of US Information Center in Pforz-
heim, Baden-Wuerttemberg.

Kaiserslautern America House, page 20. Article
by Max R. Grossman, public affairs officer,
reviewing opening of US Information Center
in Kaiserslautern, Rhineland-Palatinate.
Report on Germany, page 22. Review of the
ten quarterly and final reports issued by John
J. McCloy while US high commissioner in
Germany.

Bowling Popular in American Colony, page 33.
Pictorial story of opening of bowling alleys
in the American housing project in Bad Godes-
berg.

No. 209 — December 1952 — 33 pages

German Toys for American Orphans, inside
front cover. Pictorial story of donations from
German Toy-Manufactoring Association to US
Army's Quartermaster Corps for distribution
to orphanages in the United States.

Refugee Capital: Berlin, page 3. Article by
James C. Flint, chief, cultural affairs branch,
Berlin Element, HICOG, on problem of refugees
in Berlin,

International Film Exchange, page 6. Review
of conference in Nuremberg to inaugurate
exchange group.

Hanover Youth Forum, page 7. Article by
Francis C. Lindaman, public affairs officer,
Hanover, on local program.

United States Educational Commission, page 9.
Review of beginning of German-American
group to supervise exchange under Fulbright
Agreement.

RIAS under Eastern Fire, page 11. Review
of attacks published in Soviet Zone press.
Brave Towards Truth, page 13. Address (trans-
lated from German) by Prof. Theodor Heuss,
president of the Federal Republic of Germany,
Nov. 30 at Bergen-Belsen.

American, German Pupils Exchange Visits in
Stuttgart, page 15. Feature story by Millard
Harmon, instructor in the American school.
American Farm Girl in Germany, pages 16-17.
Pictorial feature on activities of experiences
during four-week stay in Lower Saxony.
Student Purge in Soviet Zone, page 18. Review
of recent published accounts.

Soviet Zone Adulation for Soviet Union, page
19, Summary of press accounts in eastern
Germany.

Kidnaping of Dr. Walter Linse, page 21. State-
ment (translated from German) by Dr. Johannes
Stumm, police president of Berlin, Nov. 13
at press conference.

New York Club Banner Made in Germany,
page 33, Pictorial story.

No. 210 — January 1953 — 33 pages

Prosperity, Liberty, Security, page 2. Christmas
message (translated from German) by Dr.
Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of the Federal
Republic of Germany.

New Year's Message, page 3. Address by
Samuel Reber, acting US high commissioner.
Oldest Foreign Service Local Employee Dies,
page 4. Account of death of Mrs. Ida Hafer-
mann, employee of the American Consulate
General in Hamburg after 54 years service.
SS United States at Bremerhaven, page 5.
Summary of the initial arrival of the United
States Lines passenger ship, with texts of
speeches by Samuel Reber, acting US high
commissioner and (translated from German)
by Dr. Christoph Seebohm, federal minister
of transportation.

Espelkamp - Operation Pioneer, page 7. Article
by Wilbert B. Dubin, press officer, American
Consulate General, Duesseldorf, ‘describing

44

transfer of former ammunition dump into hous-
ing settlement for refugees.

Berlin Regaining Tourist Status, page 10. Sum-
mary of report by Economic Affairs Division,
Berlin Element, HICOG.

HICOG Improves Its German, page 11. Artigle
by Friedrich Forstmeister, assistant chief,
Training Staff, Personnel Division, Office of
Executive Director, HICOG, reviewing Ger-
man classes for HICOG employees.

Baptistry Presented Plittersdorf Church, page
12. Summary of token of appreciation by Amer-
ican Catholic Parish of the Bonn area for
sharing local church.

Classrooms of Democracy, page 13. Article by
Paul Phillips, information officer, Northern
Hesse District, Kassel, describing use of Amer-
ican documentary films by German groups.
Youth Flee Service in Soviet Zone’s Army,
page 15, Summary of report of Berlin Element,
HICOG, analyzing press reports from eastern
Germany.

High Commissioner Donnelly Departs, pages
16-17. Pictorial story of retirement of US high
commissioner.

Index, page 27. List of articles published in
the Information Bulletin during 1952.

No. 211 — February 1953 — 33 pages

Activities in Berlin, inside front cover. Pic-
torial feature.

We Build a Better Living, page 2. Pictorial
feature on MSA exhibit at Berlin’s agricul-
tural fair.

America-Bremen Ties, page 3. Address (trans-
lated from German) by ‘Wilhelm Kaisen,
president of the Bremen Senate, giving
historical review of relations.

Investment in Democracy, page 7. Article by
Haynes R. Mahoney, information officer, Public
Affairs Field Center, Nuremberg, summarizing
German press tour of assistance given -HICOG
special-projects fund.

MSA Help to Farmers, page 9. Article by
Henry A. Goodinan, assistant editor, Informa-
tion Bulletin, describing technical assistance
program.

Communists Show Concern over Refugees,
page 11. Summary of report by Public Affairs
Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, , analyzing
comments in Soviet Zone press.

Rural Community Centers, page 13. Article
by Dr. Frank H. Jonas, staff writer, Information
Bulletin, describing activities of community
centers started with American assistance.
Community Teams Visit US, pages 16-17. Pic-
torical feature describing groups going to the
United States to study municipal conditions
under HICOG exchanges program.

Soviet Zone Theater Undergoing Reorganiza-
tion, page 20. Summary of survey by Berlin
Element, HICOG, analyzing reports of Com-
munism ‘criticism of drama in eastern Germany.
Many Names Applied to Red Heresies, page 21.
Summary of survey by Berlin Element, HICOG.
Christmas Good Wili, page 23. Summary of
activities by Americans to help needy and
orphans in Germany. i
RIAS Inaugurates New Transmitter, page 25.
Summary of dedication ceremony. .

No. 212 — March 1953 — 60 pages

Mississippi Panorama, inside front cover. Pic-
torial feature of exhibit of American paintings
at US Information Center in Berlin.

James B. Conant as High Commissioner, page
3. Article reviewing arrival of new com-
missioner.

Escapee Program, page 7. Article by Edward
W. Lawrence, Escapee Program coordinator,
describing purpose and activities of program.
One Year on the Border, page 9. Article by
John D. Healy, cultural officer, Kassel, re-
viewing year of activities of Eschwege Amer-
ican House.

Teachers with Ideas, page 11. Article by Dr.
Frank H. Jonas, Exchanges Branch, division of
cultural affairs, on experiment of teacher ex-
change program.

Clemency Board, page 13. Article by Richard
C. Hagan, chief, HICOG Clemency Board, re- _
viewing work and some interesting cases.
Information Bulletin, page 17. Article by H.
Warner Waid, editor, Information Bulletin.
reviewing eight-year history of the magazine.,
Index, page 19. Complete listing and ¢foss
reference of all articles published ,in the
Information Bulletin.

MARCH 1953"

--- Page 48 ---
Listed on the following pages are the titles, with cross reference, of the important
articles and informational material, with the number of the issue as given in ‘Content’
beginning on page 23. As most of the issues have long been out of print, it is impossible
to assemble complete sets. However, a few complete, or nearly complete, sets are known

to have been maintained, including: Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.; New York
Public Library, New York City; Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.; University of Chicago, Chicago, III.; Hoover
Memorial Library, Stanford, Calif.; HICOG Reference Library, Bonn-Mehlem, Germany; Library, House of Commons,
London, England; Archives, German Foreign Office, Bonn, Germany.

A
Abbreviations Used in Occupation 128
Abolition of the State of Prussia 84
Abrogation of the Nazi Law, The 4
Achievements of MG Appraised 84
Across-the-City Student Exchange Begins 188
Adding the Human Element 183
Administration of Justice, The sp I
Adoption Law Approved 122
Adult Education 52
Adult Education Sp IV
Agreement for Interzonal Exchange
Publications 60
Agreement on Relaxations of Control 190
Agricultural Extension 173
Agricultural Outlook 176
Agriculture
Agricultural Extension 173
Agricultural Outlook 176
Brannan Urges Greater Food Production 193
Collection Shortage Brings Allotment Cut 156
Conservation in German Forests 103
Economy in Farming 169
Extension Service for Hessian Farmers 153
Fair Harvest Predicted in UK Zone 108
Farmers Strive for High Crop Yield 108
Fertilizer Production 110
Forests of the Bizone 153
Four-Zone Inspection of Food &

Agriculture 108
Freedom for Farm Women 190
Friendly Revolution of Heftrich, The 196
From Test to Potato Patch 143
Germany's Agricultural Future 6
Germany's Forest 51
Harvest Survey Reveals More Grain 110
Keeping Youth on Farms 195
Land Reform 69
Land Reform 164
Land Reform Progress 171
Look at the Land, A 177
Maximizations of Agriculture 112
Maximizing German Agriculture 53
MSA Help to Farmers 21
Old Farmening Custom, An 185
Phoenix at Reichswald 195
Potato Drive Brings Results 137
Science for the Farmer 193
Scientific Harvest Surveys 149
Wehrmacht Lands 56
(also see Food and Rationing)

Aims of Bizonal Unity 64
Aims of New Industry Plan 11
Airbridge to Health 159
Airlift and Blockade
Airbridge to Health 159
Berlin Labor in the Blockade 148
Blockade-Lifting Brings Relief and

Skepticiem 162
Breakup of the Allied Kommandatura 142
Feeding Blockaded Germans in Berlin 151
Mail Out of Berlin 140
Medical Supplies by Airlift 145
Memorial to Airlift Dead 193
Real Issue in Berlin Crisis, The 140
Resistance Preferred by Berliners 148
Soviet Blockade Fails to Subjugate Berlin 143
West Berlin Enjoys Better Conditions

with Airlift 147
(also see Berlin Affairs)

Allied Comunique on Revision of
Occupation Statute 189
Allied Control Authority
Abolition of the State of Prussia 84
Allied Control Council, The 13
Allied Personnel on ACA Bodies 135
Central German Agencies 54
Custodian of German Economy 68
Four-Power Government 2B
Leaders of the Unfinished Task, The 27
Liquidation of German Military and
Nazi Monuments 43

MARCH 1953

Quadripartite Activity on Education
in Germany
Quadripartite Rupture in Berlin
Symbol of Quadripartite Cooperation
US Blames Soviets for ACA Impasses
Allied Control Council, The
Allied Controls in Austria

143
135

46
134

148

Special Issues

Eight special issues were publish-
ed by the Information Bulletin
during the past eight years.
Identified in the index by roman
numeral in chronological order,
they are:

I- Military Government Con-
ference Issue, Sept. 15, 1945
(between issues Nos. 8
and 9).

II - MG Series, March 25, 1947
(between issues Nos. 87
and 88).

Ill - Educational and Cultural
Activities in Germany To-
day, 1949 Edition, Nov. 1,
1949 (between issues Nos.
172 and 173).

IV - Activities of the Office of
Public Affairs, January
1950 (between issues Nos.
174 and 175).

V -Educational and Cultural
Activities in Germany To-
day, 1950 Edition, Nov. 1,
1950 (between issues Nos.
184 and 185).

VI - Displaced Populations,
November 1950 (between
issues Nos. 184 and 185).

VII - Landsberg, A Documentary
Report, Jan. 31, 1951 (be-
tween issues Nos. 187 and
188).

VIII - The Resident Officier, May
10, 1951 (between issues
Nos. 190 and 191).

Allied High Commission
Allied Revision of Occupation Statute
Allied Watch on the Rhine
High Commission Agreement
High Commission Charter
Occupation Statute
Petersberg Protocol
Text of Occupation Statute
Allied Personnel on ACA Bodies
Allied Policy on Germany

Allied Powers

Allied Controls in Austria

Black Watch

British Occupation Aims Explained
British Reorganization Plans
Confidence Expressed in British MG

45

189
176
161
165

174
161
135,
183

148
170
119
170

90

Die Welt 96
Economic Situation can Develop 149
London Conference 127
Meaning of Six-Power Agreement 138

Moscow Conference 92

Paris Conference 165
Western Notes Reject Soviet Charges 208
Why Are We in Germany? 120

Allied Watch on the Rhine 176

All is Not Well in Soviet Zone 200

Alternative to “Pre-Medieval Barbarism’’ 191

Ambassadors in Khaki 174

Amerika Book, The 192

America-Bremen Ties 211

America is Different 182

American Affairs Institute 175

American and German Theater 179

American Christmas Spirit, The 186

American Farm Girl in Germany 209

American Food for Kassel s Children 50

American Friends in Germany 198
American, German Pupils Exchange 209
American-German Women's Club 100
American, German Youth Cooperate 150
American Good-Will at Christmas Time 126

American Ideas Invigorating 202
American Institute sp IV
American Labor Aids Berlin Strikers 164
American Policy for Occupation 54

American Policy in Geimeny 178
American Zone Had Large Surplus 136
America’s Faith in Europe 195
America’s Good Friends 203
Amerika Dienst 168
Amerika Haus 148
Amnesty for Youth 50
Another Chance for German Youth 38
Anti-Nazi PW Retuns, tae 37
Anti-Polio Drive Spreads 181
Anti-Rearmament Law 179

Anti-Semitism in Germany 93

Appeal to Trade Unions 171
Appraising Cost of Peace 173
Approach to Clemency Decisions 190
‘Are Banks a Threat to Our Peace? 23
Are there “Good” Nazis? 37
Armed Forces ai
Armed Forces
Armed Forces 81
Civil Aviation 115
Combined Services Directorate 2
Demilitarization Pressed 95
Demobilization of German's Forces 63
Disarmament Progiam, The 64
Fire Alert 176
General Eisenhower's Farewell 202
Model Father's Club 179
Navy's Job in Occupation, The 55
Navy's Role 165
Special Consideration for Germans 44
Special Services 172
Troop Information and Education 134
Vigil on the Border 189
Weather Forecasting 113
Armed Forces Assistance to Youth 149

Army Outlines Aid to German Youth 64

Army's Role in GYA, The 7
Art Lover's Tour, An 185
Art of Giving Thanks, The 186
As I See America 190
Attitude toward Jews 195
Attractions for 1951 186
Audio-Visual Aid Sp IV
August Shipments Included First Formal
Restitution to Soviets 63
Automatic Arrest 29
B
Babe Ruth Club 160
Back from America 193

Back from the Salt Mines 15
Bank Deutscher Laender 152
Barter Exchanges Aid German Consumer 42
Barter Organization 83
Basic Law 163

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Basic Law, The

Basis for Press Laws

Basis of the Reparations Program
Basketball Comes Back

Battle against Disease

Battle against TB

Battle for Health, The

Battle of the Rhine

Battle of the Winter, The
Bavaria Helps its Blind
Bavaria to Form Civil Liberties
Bavaria Was Never Like This
Bavarian China for Export
Bavarian Crime Laboratory
Bavarian Food Hoarding
Bavarian Political Scene
Bavarian Public Forum
Bavarian Schools on View
Bavaria’s Law Library
Bavaria’s Progress

Bavaria’s Sounding Board
Bavaria’s Vacationland

“Befit a Free State’’
Beginning a New Relationship

Berlin Affairs

American Labor Aids Strikers
Berlin Blood Bank
Berlin Chooses Freedom
Berlin, Christmas 1950
Berlin Disagreements Reviewed
Berlin Divided
Berlin Elections
Berlin Elections
Berlin Medical Academy
Berlin Nutrition Program
Berlin Rail Strike
Berlin Regaining Tourist Status
Berlin Votes
Berlin's Trade Union Fight
East Side, West Side
Economy of Berlin
Fighting Poliomyelitis in Berlin
Forbidden City, The
Four Years in Berlin
Free Artists in Free Berlin
Free University Grows
Free University of Berlin
Freedom Bell Tolls Message
George C. Marshall House
Government and Politics of Berlin
Industrial Exposition Successful
Kidnaping of Dr. Walter Linse
Labor Union Advisers Kept Busy
Leuschner House
Lights for Free Berlin
Little Church Behind the Curtain
May Day in Berlin
OMGBS Rejects Soviet Charges
Political Youth in Berlin
Refugee Capital: Berlin
Road to Recovery Seen in Berlin
Student Participation at University
(also see Airlift and Blockade)
Berlin Blood Bank
Berlin Chooses Freedom
Berlin, Christmas 1950
Berlin’ Command, OMGUS
Berlin Crisis, The
Berlin Disagreements Reviewed
Berlin Divided
Berlin Elections
Berlin Elections Acclaimed
Berlin Festival 1951
Berlin Film Festival
Berlin Labor in the Blockade
Berlin Medical Academy
Berlin Nutrition Program
Berlin Philharmonic
Berlin Rail Strike
Berlin Regaining Tourist Status
Berlin Votes
Berlin Women’s Club
Berlin Youth Rebuff Bavarian Reds
Berliners Acclaim 1936 Olympic Star
Berliners Elect to Remain in Berlin
Berlin's Cultural Festival
Berlin's Neighborhood Centers
Berlin's Open Forum
Berlin's Trade Union Fight
BICO Compiles List of Abbreviations
Big Brothers and the “Little Leaguers
Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria
Bipartite Board Approves Principles
Birth of a City, The
Birth of a Republic
Bizonal Agency for Communications
Bizonal Communications
Bizonal Economic Administration

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Bizonal Economic Council
Bizonal Economic Merger Defined

Bizonal Operations

Aims of Bizonal Unity
Bipartite Board Approves Principles
Bizonal Economic Administration
Bizonal Economic Council
Bizonal Economic Merger Defined
Bizonal Organization
Bizonal Organizations
Bizonal Policy Explained
Bizonal Strengthening Explained
Bizonal Unity Strengthened
Bizone Budget at DM_ 480,000,000
Bizone's Participation in ECA Program
British Share in Bizonal Activities
Economic Council Told Problems
Effect of Economic Merger
Interzonal Economic Unity Proposal
Laenderrat’s Functions Given Bizone
MG Plan Spurs New Trade
Powers of Economic Council Set
Progress in Economic Fusion
Settlement of Bizonal Agreement
Bizonal Organization
Bizonal Organizations
Bizonal Policy Explained
Bizonal Strengthening Explained
Bizonal Unity Strengthened
Bizone Budget at DM 408,000,000
Bizone’s Economic Status Encouraging
Bizone’s Participation in ECA Program
Bizonia’s Trade Agreement Program
Black Market, The
Black Market (see Currency Control)
Blac Market and Barter Deals, The
Black Watch
Blockade-Lifting Brings Relief
Bonn als Capital
Bonn Council Advised on Basic Law
Bonn — the National Village
Books at Your Service
Books for Bayreuth
Books on Germany
Books for Trade, A
Border Police
Brannan Urges Greater Production
Brave Toward Truth
Breaking Dawn Inter-Zonal Barriers
Breaking Down the Barriers
Breakup of the Allied Kommandatura
Bremen Constiution
Bremen Helps its Youth
Bremen Industries
Bremen Policy Outlined
Bremen Port, The
Bremerhaven Fishing Industry
Bridge for Dieburg, A
Bridge Reconstruction
Bridgebuilders in Straubing
British Occupation Aims Explained
British Reorganization Plans
British Share in Bizonal Activities
Building Rate Spured
Building Strength Against Communism
Business Recovery in Bizonal Area
By Collaboration of Free People ...
By Streetcar to Freedom

Cc

Campaign of Truth

Can a Potentially Dangerous Focus of Resi-
. stance be Eliminated by Price Control?

Canals of Western Germany

CARE
CARE Legend, The
Castle Inc.

Central German Agencies
Ceramics

Challenge to Europe
Challenge to the Christian World
Chancellor's Opinion, The

Chemical Industry, The

Child Feeding Program

Child Guidance

Child's Play Becomes Woman's Work
Christian Democratic Union

Christian Social Union

Christmas Customs

Christmas Good Will

Christmas Parties

Christmas Shooters, The

Christmas Vignettes

Church Social Problems

Cities from Ruins

Cities of US Zone

Citizens Meet their Government, The

46

Civil Administration 1946-1947
Civil Administration

Civil Affairs

Civil Administration 1946-1947
Civil Administration
Civil Liberties
Decentralization of Authority
Democracy Needed in Business
Democratizing Germany
Germans Must Initiate Own Planning
Germany Learns of Her War Dead
Germany's Unhealthy Economy
Greater Home Rule
Instiute of Public Affairs
Local Self-Rule
Missing Children
Official Population Estimates
Outlook in Wuerttemberg-Baden
Population Census
Population Figures - US Zone
Restoring Administrative Machinery
Preparing for Citizenship
Toward a Unified Reich?
Towards Strong Civil Administration
Civil Aviation
Civil Communications in Germany
Civil Liberties

Civil Rights

Attitude Towards Jews

Bavaria to Form Civil Liberties

Civil Servant, The

Civil Service Law Issued for Bizone

Civil Service Reform

Congress for Cultural Freedom

Courage to Love

Freedom of Opportunity

Freedom of Trade

Germans Guard Civil Liberties

Germany's Civil Service

Germany's Population Problems

“Gewerbefreiheit"’

Guarding Human Rights

Hedler Case, The

Hesse to Combat Intolerance

Insult Law

Medical Associations

New German Civil Service

OMGUS Directive Clarifies Licensing
Procedures

Principles on Freedom to Engage in Trade

Stamping Out of Racial Prejudice Urged 180

Civil Servant, The

Civil Service (see Civil Rights)

Civil Service Law Issued for Bizone

Civil Service Reform

Civilianization of Military Government
Courts

Classroom Discussions

Classrooms for Democracy

Clemency Board

Clemency Procedure

Coal

Coal: A Four-Zone Problem

Coal in Postwar Germany

Coal-Iron-Steel Reorganization Plan

Coal Production

Coal Productivity

Coal, Steel and Mining
Action Starts on Steel Reorganization
Coal
Coal: A Four-Zone Problem
Coal in Postwar Germany
Coal-Iron Reorganization Plan
Coal Production
Coal Productivity
Decartelization: The Coal Industry

Federal Republic Plan for Implementation

of Law 27 Approved

“Glueck Auf!"

Hard Coal Industry Continues Climb

HICOM Law No. 27

Plan for Ruhr Control

Relation of Coal Industry to US Zone

Reorganization of Steel Industries

Ruhr Authority

Ruhr Coal

Ruhr Coal and European Recovery

Ruhr Coal Industry

Ruhr Industry's Problem

Ruhr - Vital to Recovery, The

Today's Coal Situation

‘West German Steel Industry
Co-Determination

Spl
13

Collection Shortage Brings Allotment Cut 156

Combined Displaced Persons Executive
Combined Nutrition Survey
Combined Services Directorate

2,

MARCH 1953-

--- Page 50 ---
Coming Generation, The 166

Commissioner McCloy 163
Common Problems - Common Front 196
Communication Rehabilitation 174
Communications
Bizonal Agency for Communications 84
Bizonal Communications 152
Civil Communications in Germany
Communications 80
Communications Rehabilitation 174
Communications System Expanding 188
Denazifying the Reichspost 40
Germany Calling Overseas 176
Long Distance Service Returned 44
New Stamps for Germany 61
Postage Stamps it
Postal Service p I

Postal Services, Telephone and Telegraph =, I
Reichspost - A’ Monopoly

Restoration of Communications 108

Revival of Communications 13

US Zone Centralizes Reichspost 2
Communications

Communications System Expanding Steadily 188
Communique of Foreign Ministers’

Conference in Paris 197
Communique on European Unity 195
Communist Party 174

Communist Press in Western Germany _ 182
Communists (see Soviets and Communism)
Communists Show Concern over Refugees 211

Community Activities Sp Iv
Community Activities
Berlin's Neigborhood Centers 186
Books for Bayreuth 193
Bremen Helps Its Youth 197
Citizens Meet their Government 190
Community Activities Sp Iv
Community Council Arrives 190
Community Councils 165
Community Councils Sp IV
Consumer Cooperatives 85
Democracy Comes to Dachau 190
Democracy in Munich 176
Democratic Development 169
Education in Citizenship 194
Germans Form Study Group 193
Good Neighbor Week 175
Governmental Institutions Sp IV
Grassroots Information Services 147
House of Neighbors 191
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher 177
Investment in Democracy 211,
Junior Chamber Arrives 193
Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow 196
Meeting ,,Their Government” 197
Missionaries in Fritzlar 199
Mutual Understanding 194
Quiz Comes to Nuremberg, The 193
Rural Community Centers 211
Salzgitter 206
School Clean-Up Day 181
They Got the Bus Rolling 183
Community Council Arrives 190
Community Councils 165
Community Councils Sp IV
Community Leaders Queried on Democ-
racy and Politics 44
Community Relations
Across-the-City Exchange 188
American-German Women’s Club 100

American, German Pupils Exchange Visits 209
Berliners Acclaim 1936 Olympic Games

Star 194
Breaking Down the Barriers 178
Bridge for Dieburg, A 196
Bridgebuilders in Straubing 190
Community Survey 162
Darmstadt Survey 205
Fellowship between Schools 195
German-American Convention 180
German-American Discussion Groups 128

German-American Lecture Group
German-American Relations Improving 184

GlI-German Relations 183
Haus Schwalbach 169
Lesson to be Learned, A 191
Ludwigsburg Project 160
MG in the Field 78
MGO Teaches Democracy 159
MGO's Daily Work 150
OLCWB State Seminar for Resident

Officers 176
Public Affairs Program 208
Resident Officers 174
Resident Officers Sp IV
Resident Officers’ Conference 193

MARCH 1953

Second RO's Conference 184

Surveying the Occupation 187

Touring of the Border 191

We Live in a Glass House 198
Community Survey 162
Community Teams Visit US 21
Competitive Press for Germany, A 39
Complaint Office 164
Conference of Economic Agencies, The 14
Confidence Expressed in British MG 90
Congress for Cultural Freedom 182
Congressman Explains Aid Procedure 114
Conservation in German Forests 103
Consolidation of Military Government 13
Constitution-Making at Bonn 145
Constitutional Development 174
Consumer Cooperative 85
Control Council Law No. 1 and 2 13
Control Council Legislation 15

Control of Expenditures of Nazis and
Militarists Sp
Control of Government in the Soviet Zone 6

Control of Property of Nazis and

Militarists sp I
Control of Research Sp I
Control of Scientific Research ri
Cooperation Solving Bremen’s Traffic

Problems

Cooperative Community 199
Coordinating History Books 203
Coordination of Rail Transportation 113
Cornerstone Laid of Bremen Center 202
Cornerstone of a Better Future 201
Cost of Living 167
Cost of Schooling 186
Cotton Plan for Germany 101
Council of Europe, The 205
Council of Ministers President 14
Courage to Love 174
Courts (see Legal Affairs)
Courts in Germany 134
Crailsheim Experiment 121
CRALOG 120
Cultural Activities

American and German Theater 179

Art Lover's Tour, An 185

Berlin's Cultural Festival 196

Berlin Festival 1951 193

Berlin Film Festival 190

Berlin Philharmonic 100

Cultural Envoys in Uniform - 208

Cultural Festival in Berlin 207

Cultural Integration 203

Education and Cultural Relations

Division p IV

European Weeks in Passau 207

Freedom Prizes for Artists 179

Fulda Art Congress 177

Goethe House Restored 191

Hindemith 157

Hollywood in Bavaria 128

Hollywood Stars Speak German 178

Houses of International Citizenship 206

Inter-Allied Music Library 105

International University Theater 176

Modern German Art 167

Motion Pictures Sp IV

Music in Germany 2B

Musical Ties 200

No Bread and Circuses for Germany 30

Rembrandt Exhibition 150

Soldier Trio Share Instruments 206

Theater and Music Sp IV

Theater Returns to Bavarian Scene 26

Theater, The - 69

US Drama in Germany 150

Visiting American Artists 142

Visual Arts 165

Wagner Return of Bayreuth 189

World's Worst Theater 189
Cultural Articles Returned 204
Cultural Envoys in Uniform 208
Cultural Festival in Berlin 207
Cultural Goods Restituted 132
Currency Control

Barter Exchanges Aid Consumer 42

Barter Organizations 83

Black Market, The 37

Black Market and Barter Deals 128

Can a Potentially Dangerous Focus of Resi-

stance be Eliminated by Price Control? 29
Currency Reform 138
Currency Reform after Four Years 207
Distribution, Rationing, Inflation Control Spt
DM Shows Strength

Financial Institutions and Currency Est ‘i
High Price Bubble Bursts 154
Impact of Currency Reform 145

47

Inflation 22
Marks Still Legal Currency 104
Price Control 66
Reform Brings out Consumer Goods 139
Specter of Inflation, The at
Stagnant Inflation 94
Currency Reform 138
Curréncy Reform after Four Years 207
Curriculum Centers 133
Custodian of German Economy 68
Czechoslovakia - A Cause for Hope 131
-Czechoslovakia a Concentration Camp 195

D

DANA 59
DANA Receives MG License 66
Darmstadt Survey 205
Dateline: Germany + 176
Day Care Centers 113
Day with a German Housewife, A 144
Decartelization
Decartelization 82
Decartelization 119
Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed 180
Decarteliziation Law Violators Fined 183
Decartelization: The Coal Industry 65
Decartelization: The Oil, Industry WF
Decartelizing IG Farben 101
Farben Securities Transfer Prohibited 29
1G. Farben Plants in US Zone Seized 1
New Industrial Habits for Old 184
Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed 180
Decartelizations Law Violators Fined 183
Decartelization: The Coal Industry 65
Decartelization: The Oil Industry 7
Decartelizing 1G Farben 104
Decentralization of Authority Spt
Decentralization of Government 131
Declaration of Friendship 193
Declaration of Rights of Displaced Persons 182
Defense of Common Freedom 196
Defense of Democracy 180
Deggendorf Marks 1,200th Anniversary 181
Demilitarization Pressed 95
Demise of Military Government i7t
Demobilization of Germany's Armed Forces 63
Democracy and the Occupation 153
Democracy Catches On 26
Democracy Comes to Dachau 190
Democarcy in Munich 176
Democracy Needed in Business 135
Democracy Stalks the Library 187
Democratic Development 169
Democratic Self Government in Progress ay
Democratization of Education 176
Democratization Progressing 201
Democratizing Germany 133
Democratizing Information Services 53
Democratizing Textbooks 159
Denazification
Abrogation of Nazi Law, The 4
Anti-Nazi PW Returns, The 37
Are There ‘‘Good” Nazis? 33
Automatic Arrest 29
Control Council Law No. 1 and 2 13
Control of Expenditures of Nazis Spt
Control of Property of Nazis Sp I
Denazification and Anti-Nazis 1
Denazification by Germans 32
Denazification of German Business 12
Denazification: German Version 64
Denazification is Your Job
Denazification Nears Completion 146
Denazification Policy Unified 27
Denazfication Summary 169
Denazification - Unfinished Business 18
Dissolution. of Nazi Organizations Spi
7771st Document Center 05
Drive to End Nazism, The 1
Future Nazi Propaganda Line 4
German Camp Situation Clarified 87
German Leaders on Denazification 19
Germans Begin Denazification 38
Importance of Denazification Spt
Internment Camps 70
Law No. 8

MG Agencies Winding Up Denazification b
Now It's Up to the Germans

Proposed Denazification Program 2
Removal of Nazis and Militarists 8
Removal of Nazis and Militarists Sp I
Status of Denazification 188
Two New Decrees - 46
Use of Anti-Nazi Groups Spl
What is Militarism? 20
Denazification of the Anti-Nazis 1

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Denazification by Germans 32

Denazification: German Version 64
Denazification is Your Job

Denazification Nears Completion 146
Denazification of German Business 12
Denazification Policy Unified 27
Denazification Summary 169
Denazification - Unfinished Business "18
Denazifying the Reichspost 40
“Der Monat" Outstanding 186
Design for Use, USA 190
Determined, Unity is Surest Hope 148
Deutsche und Dresdner Banks 99
Development of the Marshall Plan 129
Disarmament Program, The 64

Dislodged Populations

Birth of a City, The 186
Child's Play Becomes Woman's Work 193
Combined Displaced Persons Executive 2
Cooperative Community 199
Declaration of Rights 182
Displaced Persons Sp I
Displaced Persons 131
Displaced Persons 175
Displaced Persons - Past and Future 10
Emigration from Germany 180
Erksdorf, Model of Cooperation 195
Escapee Program 212
Espelkamp - Operations Pioneer 210
Ethnic Germans Emigrate 197
Expellees’ Glove Firm 178
German Refugees and Expellees 176
Germany's Refugees 169
Gift of Self-Respect, The 188
Homes Across the Seas 188

Housing of Displaced Persons 16

Immigration 147
Integration on its Way 187
Jewish Displaced Persons Express Grati-

tude for Aid Extended by US 63
Kassel Detachment and the DP's 15
Last DP Family Sails 204
Latvians Move On 178
Manhunt for 6,000,000 190
800 New Dwellings for Refugees 183
New German Citizens 46
New Homes for Refugees 178
PCIRO 102
Prisoners of War, Displaced Persons 81
Refugee Camp 178
Refugee Enterprise 197

Refugee Glassmakers 191

Refugee Handicraft 157
Refugee Shoemaker 177
Refugees and Expellees 94
Refugees Helping Themselves 181
Rehabilitation for Emigration 189
Repatriation 148
Role of UNRRA in the DP Operation 5
Saga of an Expellee 94
Stateless Jews and Harrison Report 11
Sudetens Come Home 178
They Seek the Missing 144
Voluntary Assistance 176

Dismantling Norddeutsche Huette 104

Dispersion of Economic Power Sp I

Displaced Persons Sp I

Displaced Persons 131

Displaced Persons 175

Displaced Persons - Past and Future 10

Disposition of Foreign Exchange Assets Sp I

Dissolution of Nazi Organizations Sp I

Distorting German History 176

Distribution, Rationing, Inflation Control Sp I

DM Shows Strength 154

7771st Document Center 105

Dollar Drive 179

Drama of German Recovery 180

Drive to End Nazism, The 1

Drug Racket Curbed 130

Dueling in Universities 198

Duties for I & S Office Defined 88

E
East German School Sovietized 190

East Side, West Side, All Around Berlin 184

East Zone Government 176
ECA Agreement Signed 175
ECA Aid to Germany 177
ECA Housing Exposition Goes on Tour —200
ECAD Ends 19 Months Service 6

Economic Affairs
Bizone's Economic Status Encouraging 153
Business Recovery in Bizonal Area 151
Conference on Economic Agencies, The 14
Control of Research
Control of Scientific Research 75

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dispersion of German Economic Power Sp I.
Economic Outlook for 1948 126
Economic Prospects for Germany 192
Economic Situation in Occupied Germany 120
German Economy, The 172
Economics Division 82
Greater Responsibility for Germans 45
Hoover Industry Program 87
Organization for Production Control Sp I
Plan for Liquidating War Potential 63
Swords into Plowshares 41

United States’ Stake in Economic Recovery 97
Year of Potsdam, A
(also see Bizonal Operations; Coal, Steel

and Mining; Communications; Decarteli-
zation; European Recovery; Industry;
Transportation)

Economic Cooperation Administration
(see European Recovery)

Economic Council Told Problems 103
Economic Outlook for 1948 126
Economic Prospects for Germany 192
Economic Situation can Develop in
Healthy Manner 149
Economic Situation in Occupied Germany 120
Economics Division 82
Economy in Farming . 169
Economy of Berlin 185
Editorials on Nuremberg Verdicts 63
Education 80
Education Sp IV
Education
Adult Education 52
Adult Education Sp IV
Bavarian Schools on View 192
Child Guidance 182
Classrooms Discussions 183
Coming Generation, The 166
Democratization of Education 176
Education 80
Education Sp IV
Education by Radio 151
Education for Democracy 118
Education in Bavaria 170
Education System to be Revised 101
Free Tuition 174
Frontier School 202
Future Homemakers 167
High Schools Resistent to Democracy 165
Little Michel's Fear 184

New Horizons in Education 161

Operation Better Kids 152
Out of the Rubble 155
Program of Re-Education 55
Public School Reform 173
Re-Education in Germany Sp I
School Reform in Bavaria 175
School Reform in Hesse 163
Schools for Democracy 20
2,618,000 Students 65
Teacher Education Sp IV
Training for Citizenship 179
Vocational Education Sp IV
Education, Cultural Relations Division Sp Iv
Education by Radio 151
Education for All 204
Education for Democracy 118
Education in Bavaria 170
Education in Citizenship 194
Education Mission 57
Education Service Centers Sp IV
Education System to be Revised 101
Educational Affairs
Cost of Schooling 186
Democratizing Textbooks 159
Internationalism Builds Better Schools 182

Model Classrooms Set Up in Bavaria 181

Modern Schools Planned 190
New Books for German Schools 9
New Schools Arriving 199
New Textbooks for German Schools 76
New Trends in Education 189
Postwar Textbooks Sp IV
School Financing 188
Student Self-Help 153
Youth Self-Help 181

Educational Institutes
American Affairs Institute 175
American Institute Sp IV
Coordinating History Books 203
Cornerstone Laid for Bremen Center 202
Curriculum Centers 133
Education Mission 37
Education Service Centers Sp IV
Educational Research in Germany 207

Educational Service Center 166
Free University of Berlin

48

German University, The 171
International Summer Schools 102
Labor Leadership School 135
Midway on the Main 182
Present Status of Universities 191°
Professions, Universities, Future 201
Reopening German Universities 3
Role of the University 199
School Village on the Bergstrasse 204
Seminary in Democracy 197
Teacher Training 92
Teachers Go Back to School 184

Educational Research in Germany 207

Educational Service Center 166

Effect of Economic Merger 5

Efficiency Rating 162

“Ein Glas Milch, Bitte’ 182

Eisenhower Sees MG Improvement 62

Election Procedure Outlined 117

Election Results Show Democratic Process 27

Elections (see Political Activities)

Elections in Retrospect 35

Electoral Law 167

Emigration from Germany 180

Employee Morale 174

Employee Relations 56

Employee Training 164

Employee Utilization 161

Employment Guide for Household Help _ 199

Erksdorf, Model of Cooperation 195

ERP Benefits to Germany 204

ERP House Building for Refugees 182

ERP Marks Second Anniversary 179

ERP Providing Homes 189

Escapee Program 212

Espelkamp - Operation Pioneer 210

Establishing Position of High Commissioner 163

Ethnic Germans Emigrate 197

EUCOM Dollars Help Economy 198

Europa Union Plebiscites 182

European Recovery
Challenge to Europe 173
Congressman Explains Aid Procedure 114
Development of the Marshall Plan 129
Drama of German Recovery 180
ECA Agreement Signed 175,
ECA Aid to Germany 177
ERP Benefits to Germany 204
ERP Marks Second Anniversary 179°
European Recovery Program 158
Future ERP Aid 169
Germany's Need for Aid in 1950-51 184
Germany's Role in European Recovery 141
Individual's Role in ERP 178
Marshall Plan and Western Germany 129
Midway with ERP 177
OEEC Truck Caravan 183
Operation ‘'Show-How!"" 178
Organization for Economic Cooperation 163
Review of ERP Aid 154
1,442,647 See “Train of Europe” 194
Telling What ERP Does 166
Third ECA Investment Program Begins 189
US Proposal for Europe to Help Self 99
Wanted: Publicity Campaign 186,
Western Germany Has Very Greatly

Progressed 168
European Recovery Program 158

European Unity ,
Alternative to ‘‘Pre-Medieval Barbarism" 191
Council of Europe, The 202
Europe Union Plebiscites 182
German Participation in International

Bodies 180
Germany and Europe 197
Germany in a United Europe 178,
Germany's Defense Contribution 200
Mission of Peace, A , 187
Schuman Plan and Germany, The 189.
Schuman Plan Treaty Signed 190
Struggle for German Unity, The 201
Summary of Schuman Plan Treaty 189
Torchers Pierce ‘Iron Curtain” 202
Youth and German Defense 187

European Weeks in Passau 207

Evaluation of the German Vote 7h,

Evangelical Bridge 194

Exchangees Applaud US Visit 18h

Exchangees Say..., The * 183

Exchangees Activities 5
Adding the Human Element 183
America is Different 182
American Farm Girl in Germany 209
American Ideas Invigorating 202
America’s Good Friends 203
As I See America 190-
Back from America 193

MARCH 1953

--- Page 52 ---
Bavaria Was Never Like This 197

Community Teams Visit US 211
Exchangees Applaud US Visits 181
Exchangees Si + The 183
Exchanges Division Sp IV
Farmers from America 182
Fulbright Agreement 205
German-American Friendship 207
6 German Broadcasters in US 135
German Experts Study Tax System 184
German Girl Wins Scholarship 114
15 German Newsmen Tour US 144

German Politicians Observe Elections 152

German Viewpoint, The 189
Hesse’s Statesman Views America 194
Hitchhiking Through America 195
Impact of Exchanges Program 197
Krefeld Likes US Ideas 200
Looking Stateward 192
Nation of Neighbors 193
Nation of Youth 195
Practicing Democracy 161
Press of Two Nations 201
Seeds of Understanding 185
Seeing for Themselves 154
Student Exchange 149
Symbol of Appreciation 200
US Educational Commission 209
Visit to United States 159
Young Farmers Return 190

Exchanges Division Sp IV

Executive Officers, The 78

Expellees (see Dislodged Populations)

Expellee’s Glove Factory 178

Explaining Our Side 118

Export Buyers Guide to Germany 90

Extension Service for Farmers 153

Extradition Policy in US Zone 186

Face is Familiar, The 190

Fair Harvest Predicted in US Zone 108

Faith-Barrier to Tyranny 185

Fallacy of “Stoccholm Resolution” 183

Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth 194

Farben Securities Transfer Prohibited 29

Farm Women of Germany 106

Farm Youth Speaks Out 181

Farmers from America 182

Farmers Strive for High Crop Yield 108

Federal Elections Results 169

Federal Plan for Law 27 190

Feeding Blockaded Germans in Berlin 151

Feeding the Hungry in Bavaria 116
Fellowship between Schools 195
Fellowship of Love 177
Fertilizer Production 110
Field Seminars 115
Fighters Against Inhumanity 183
Fighting Poliomyelitis in Beilin 129
Films (see Motion Pictures)
Finance
American Zone Has Large Surplus 136
Are Banks a Threat to our Peace? 23
Bank Deutscher Laender 152
Disposition of Foreign Exchange Assets Sp I
EUCOM Dollars Help Economy 198
Finance Division 79
Financial Intelligence 2
Financial Policy in Occupied Germany 3
Foreign Currency Conversion 9
Is Law No. 52 Effective? : 35
Low Cost of Occupation Stressed 180
New Taxes for Germany 30
Occupation Costs 186
Settlement of German Debts 192
Smokers, Drinkers Hit by New Taxes 44
Social Insurance in Germany 46
Stock Exchanges 83
Taxes, Public Finance SpI
Text of Debt Conference Communiques 205

(also see Currrency Control)
Finance Division 79

Financial" Institutions and Currency Sp I
Financial Intelligence 72
Financial Policy in Occupied Germany 3
Finding Dollar Markets 184
Fire Alert 176
First Step Toward Narcotics Control 23
Five-Year Inventory, A 181
Five Years after Potsdam 179
Food and Agriculture 1946—1947 7”
Food and Agriculture 82
Food and Agriculture sp I

Food and Rationing
American Food for Kassel’s Children 50

Bavarian Food Hoarding 43
Child Feeding Program 103
MARCH 1953

Cost of Living

167
Day with a German Housewife 144
Ein Glass Milch, Bitte 182
Feeding the Hungry in Bavaria 116
Food and Agriculture 1946—1947 “4
Food and Agriculture 82
Food and Agriculture Sp I
Food Crisis Held German Test 89
Food for the Germans 132
Food for the US Zone 49
Food for Thought 187
Food Poll Taken in British Zone 118
Food Situation, The 95
Food Situation Improves in Germany —_97
Food Strikes, The 133
Food Substitution Forbidden 114
German Fishing Fleet 111
German Food Problems ‘and Policies 2
Germany's Food Problem 88
Germany's Livestock being Vetted 24
Give Us This Day Our Daily Bread... 38
Jedermann Program 161
Laenderrat Tackles Food Distribution 44
Many will Survive, But... 12
26,865,000 Meals a Week 179
More and Better Food for Germans 144
New Rationing System 47
Outlook for Winter Described 119
Protest Demonstration in Bavaria 133
What the Germans Will Eat 5
(also_see Agriculture)
Food Crisis Held German Test 89
Food for the Germans 132
Food for the US Zone 49
Food for Thought 187
Food Poll Taken in British Zone 118
Food Situation, The 95
Food Situation Improves in Germany 97
Food Strikes, The 133
Food Substitution Forbidden 114
For a Free and United Germany 207
For Better Understanding 173
Forbidden City, The 194
Foreign Currency Conversion 9
Foreign Ministers’ Declaration 195
Foreign Trade Based on Reichsmark 112
Foreign Visitors 163
Forerunner of Nuremberg 135
Forestry (see Agriculture)
Forests of the Bizone 153
Forgive Us Our Trespasses 29
Formula for Peace 161
For Reparations: 185 Plants 42
Forum of the Air a
Founding of the SED 136
Four Christmases 150
Four-Power Government 28
Four Years in Berlin 170
Four-Zone Inspection 108
Frankfurt Academy of Labor 90
Free Air for Germany 35,
Free Artists in Berlin 185
Free-Enterprise Principle Surveyed 192
Free Enterprise System 125
Free Press and the Future, A 15
Free Radio is a Blessing 196
Free Tuition 174
Free University Grows 205
Free University of Berlin 156
Free University of Berlin Sp IV
Free Vote for Unity 177
Freedom Also for the Soviet Zone 200
Freedom Bell Tolls Message 184
Freedom for Farm Women 190
Freedom of Opportunity 206
Freedom of the Press 150
Freedom of Trade 183
‘Freedom’ Prizes for Artists 179
Freedom to Meet 194
Freedom vs. Totalitarianism 120
Freiburg America House 208
French Point of View, The 188
Friendly Revolution of Heftrich 196
Friends: in Germany 115
Friendship Camps 195
From Huts to Houses 185
From Nissen Huts to New Homes 193
From Test to Potato Patch 143
Frontier School 202
Fulbright Agreement 205
Fulda Art Congress 177
Future ERP Aid 169
Future Homemakers 167
Future Lawyers 201
Future Nazi Propaganda Line, The 4
G
General Agreement 203
General Eisenhower's Farewell 202
George C. Marshall House 184

49

German Administration of Justice 13
German-American Convention 180
German-American Discussion Groups 128
German-American Friendship 207
German-American Lecture Group 60
German-American Relations 184
German-Americans 166
German Background :
America-Bremen Ties ait
Attractions for 1951 186
Birth of a Republic 7
Bonn — the National Village 198
Brave Towards Truth 209
Christmas Customs 124
Christmas Shooters, The 185
Cities of US Zone 131
Deggendorf Marks Anniversary 181
Deutsche und Dresdner Banks 99
Dueling in Universities 198
Four Christmases 150
German-Americans 166
German Organizations Under Reich 44
Germany's Most Costly Adventure 172
Kaiser Wilhelm Society 69
Land Wuerttemberg-Baden 89
Nazi Influence on Civil Service 24
Nazis Had a League Abroad 31
Oberammergau 173
Potsdam 53
Pre-Hitler Political Parties 4
Public Welfare 36
Revolution of 1848 136
World’s Oldest Windows 185
German Books and Magazines 87
German Border Problem 124
6 German Broadcasters Study in US 135
German Camp Situation Clarified 87
German Church, The 96
German Cities Go to the Poll 45
German Civil Transportation System Sp I
German Constitutions 130
German Deficiencies Listed 89
German Economy, The 172
German Experts Study US Tax System 184
German Fishing Fleet iit
German Food Problems and Policies 2
German Foreign Trade — 1945 7
German Girl Wins Scholarship 114
German Import Program 128
German Imports 151
German-Jewish Relations 194
German Justice Revamped 28
German News Service is Born 34
15 German Newsmen Tour US 144
German Organizations under Reich 44
German Part in International Bodies 180
German Leaders on Denazification 19
German Political Scene, The 67
German Politicians Observe US Elections 152
German Radio p IV
German Refugees and Expellees 176
German Scientific Research 195
German University, The i
German Veterinary Laboratories 7
German Viewpoint, The 189
German Women Evaluate State Visits 200
German Women Learn about UN 199
German Women Shed their Shackles 47
German Women's Organizations 135
German Youth Problems 95
Germans Begin Denazification 38
Germans Convinced Nuremberg Defendants
Received Fair Trial 61
Germans Form Study Group 193
Germans Get ‘Free’ Radio 154
Germans Guard Civil Liberties 188
Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable 182
Germans Must Initiate Own Planning 99
Germans Pay Import Costs in D-Marks 155
Germans will Restitute Nazi Victims 41
Germany and Democracy sp I
Germany and Europe 197
Germany Approaches Sovereignty 189
Germany Calling Overseas 176
Germany Enters World Trade 36
Germany Goes to the Movies 186
Germany in a United Europe 178
Germany in World Defense 194
Germany — Key to Recovery. 112
Germany Learns of her War Dead At
Germany Makes Restitution 179
Germany Needs Its Women 185
Germany Takes Another Step 4
Germany Through Eyes of PW's 132
Germany Today 173
Germany Today 180
Germany Votes 101
Germany's Agricultural Future 6
Germany's Civil Service 184

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
Germany's Defense Contribution 200
Germany's Federal Government 201
Germany's Food Problem 88
Germany's Foreign Relations 201
Germany's Foreign Trade Extended 41
Germany's Forests 51
Germany's Future 198
Germany’‘s Inland Waterways 50
Germany's Liberal Groups 172
Germany's Livestock being Vetted 24
Germany's Most Costly Adventure 172
Germany's Need for ERP Aid in 1950-51 184
Germany's New Press 154
Germany's Population Problems 208
Germany's Problems 193
Germany's Refugees 169
Germany's Role in European Recovery 141
Germany’s Role in World Markets 166
Germany's Unhealthy Economy 121
Germany's View Foreign Ministers’
Communique 183
Germany's Workshop 83
“Gewerbefreiheit” (freedom to work) 189
Gift Parcels 100
Gift Parcels from the US 52
GlI-German Relations 183
Girl Scouts 155
Give Us This Day Our Daily Bread 38
Glass 57
Glass and Ceramics 163
“Glueck auf!'’ (Luck to You) 196
Goethe House Restored 191
Golden Gloves 152
Good Neighbor Week 175
Goods Allocated to Allies 124
Government and Politics of Berlin 198
Government (German)
Basic Law, The 163
Beginning a New Relationship 203
Bonn as Capital 161
Bonn Council Advised on Law Draft 157
Bremen Constitution 106
Chancellor's Opinion, The 203
Constitution-Making at Bonn 145
Constitutional Development 174
Council of Ministers President 14
Decentralization of Government 131
Democratic Self Government 47
For a Free and United Germany 207
Freedom Also for the Soviet Zone 200
German Deficiencies Listed 80
Germany Approaches Sovereignty 189
Germany's Federal Government 201
Germany's Foreign Relations 201
Laender Advised to Adopt Decrees 93
Laenderrat Addressed on Anniversary 115
Ministers President's Secretariat 17
No Conditional Unity 187
Parliamentary Advisory Council 98
Plan Submitted for Federal Setup 140
Position of Advisory Parliament 85
Potsdam to Bonn 161
Problem of Uniform Laws 105
Progress or Self-Government ia
Proposal for Free Election 196
Prosperity, Liberty, Security 210
Southwest State, The 199
‘Who's Who in the Federal Cabinet 191
Governmental Institutions Iv
“'Grass-Roots"’ Information Service 147
Greater Home Rule 155
Greater Responsibility for Germans 45
Growth of the Trade Unions 31
Guarding Human Rights Today 196
Guest in the House 14
GYA Christmas Plans 173
GYA Civic Centers 109
GYA Conference 95
H
Habeas Corpus 127
Halder's Diary 112
Hand-Built City 117
Hand of Friendship 192
Hanover Youth Forum 209
Hard Coal Industry Continues Climb 159
Harvest Survey Reveals More Grain 110
Haus Schwalbach- 169
Health and Human Relations 196
Health and Welfare Sp Iv
Health Problems in Bavaria 193
Health Resorts 91
Hedler Case, The 177
Hesse to Combat Intolerance 182
Hesse’s Statesman Views America 194
Hesse’s Progress 173
Hessian Exports M1
HICOG Builds for the Future 203

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HICOG Field Offices Complete Activities 202

HICOG Houses Its Emploees 187
HICOG Improves Its German 21
HICOG Law No. 20 192
HICOG Law No. 21 192
HICOG Learns German 183
HICOG Moves to Bonn 197
HICOG Organization 167
HICOG Staff Planning 179
HICOG's Objective 173
High Commission Agreement 161
High Commission Charter 165
High Commissioner Donnelly Departs 210
High-Price Bubble Bursts 154
High Schools Resistent to Democracy 165
Highway Patrol 168
Highway Patrol 177
Highways of the US Zone 56
Hindemith 157
Historical Studies 184
Hitchhiking through America 195
HICOM Law No. 27 180

HICOM Law on Control‘of Certain Articles,
Products, Installations and Equipment | 179

Holy Year Pilgrimage . 174
Hollywood in Bavaria 128
Hollywood Stars Speak German! 178
Home Economics for Farm Women 153
Homes Across the Seas 188
Homes for Better Living 194
Homes for the Wanderer 186
5,000,000 Homes Needed 174
Hoover Industry Program 87
Hotels for Tourists and Businessmen 150
House of Clay 178
House of International Citizenship 206
House of Neighbors 191
House that Youth Built, The 179
Housing Spl
Housing (see Reconstruction)
Housing — A German Problem 35
Housing Construction Still Lags 139
Housing of Displaced Persons 16
Housing Problem, The 72
How JEIA Works 137
How Laws are Made 133
I
I. G. Farben Plants in US Zone Seized 1
“I Hate Communism" 194
Immigration 147
Impact of Currency Reform 145
Impact of Exchanges Program 197
Importance of Denazification Spl
Import and Export Control Sp I
Imported from the US 51
Impounded Films 118
Index 160
Index 178
Index 199
Index 210
Index 212
Indictment against Nazism 33
Indigenous Personnel Office 76
Individuals Role in ERP 178
Industrial Expansion Aided 175
Industrial Exposition Successful 198
Industry 82
Industry
Agreement on Relaxation of Control 190
Aims of New Industry Plan Att
Bavarian Church for Export 86
Bremen Industries 119
Bremerhaven Fishing Industry 153
Ceramics 50
Chemical Industry, The 75
Germany's Workshop 83
Glass 57
Glass and Ceramics 163
HICOM Law on Control of Articles 179
Industrial Expansion Aided 175
Industry 1946—1947 .
Industry 82
Industry in the US Zone 54
Leather Industry 166
Making German Tires 89
MG's Task in Industry 90
Plans for Terminating IAR 198
Plight of Industry il
Policies for Control of Potential Spt

Porcelain, Old and New 19:
Prohibited, Limited Industry Defined 160
9:

Public Utilities 2,
Revised Plan for Level of Industry 109
STEG 158
Struggle for Production 49
Textile and Clothing Industry 172

Towards Bringing Materials to Industry 15

50

Toys
Utilities
(also see Economic Affairs)
Industry 1946—1947
Industry in the US Zone
Inflation
Information Bulletin

Information Centers

Amerika Haus 148
Democracy Stalks the Library 187
Freiburg America House 208
Information Uncensored 197
Kaiserslautern America House 208
Library on Wheels 201
One Year on the Border 212
Pforzheim America House 208
Popularity of Information Centers 183
Prize Package: Freedom, The 200
Rhineland America House 204
Ruhr's Information Center 200
Stuttgart US Information Center 176
Tuebingen America House 204
US Information Centers 55
US Information Centers 100
US Information Centers Sp IV
Windows to the West 181
Information Control 9
“Informations Please’ 31
Information Services and Democratic Sp I
Information Services Division p IV
Information Uncensored 197
Informational Services
Audio-Visual Aid Sp IV
Books at Your Service 178
Books on Germany 95
Classrooms for Democracy 210
Dateline: Germany 176
Explaining Our Side 118
Freedom vs. Totalitarianism * 210
Information Control 79.
Information Services and Democratic Sp I
Information Services Division Sp IV
Invitation to a New Conscience 189
Library of Congress Mission B
Mills of Death 30
OMGUS Reference Library 88
Sacred Rights of Free Expression 167
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher 177
Inland Shipping 159
Inland Waterways and Railroads 16
Insect Control 102
Insistance on Free German Elections 207
Institute of Public Affairs 161
Insult Law 161
Integration on its Way 187
Intelligence Report 8
Intelligent Understanding 187
Inter-Allied Music Library 105
Inter-Faith Councils 164
Internal Affairs and Communications 80
International Aspect, An 185
International Brotherhood and Radio 181
International Film Exchange 209
International Situation and Germany 184
International Summer Schools 102
International University Theater 176
Internationalism Builds Better Schools 182
Internment Camps 76
Interzonal Economic Unity Proposal 52
Investment in Democracy au
Invitation to a New Conscience 189
Is Germany Short of Labor? 28
Is Law No. 52 Effective? 35
It's the Law 127
J
J'Accuse! 34
James B. Conant as High Commissioner 212
January Elections, The 19
Jedermann Program 161
JEIA (see Trade and Commerce)
JEIA Plan Permits Freer Trade 150
JEIA Reviews 4 Months of Work 138
Jewish Communities ; 156
Jubilaeumsbau at Marburg, The 19
Junior Chamber Arrives 193
Justice Case 138
Juvenile Detention Home 93 -
K :
Kaiserlautern America House 208
Kaiser Wilhelm Society 69°
Karlsruhe Cleans Up 97
Karlsruhe Harbor 118
Kassel Detachments and DP’s 15
Keeping Youth on Farms : 195
MARCH 1953

--- Page 54 ---
Key HICOG Personnel

Key MG Personnel

Key MG Personnel

Kidnaping of Dr. Walter Linse
Krefeld Likes US Ideas

L.

Labor Affairs
Appeal to Trade Unions
Co-Determination
Education for All
Frankfurt Academy of Labor
Growth of the Trade Unions
Is Germany Short of Labor?
Labor Movement Pattern
Labor Organization in the US Zone
Labor Picture
Labor Unions
Labor's Legislative Program
Labor's Responsibilities
Labor's Unfinished Tasks
Manpower Division
Reopening Administrative Courts
Reopening Labor Courts
Special Labor Congress
Trade Union Activities
Trade Union Federation
Trade Union Growing
Training for Production
View of Labor, A
Worker Goes to School, The
Worker's Education
Works Council at Stuttgart Plant
Works Council in Germany
Labor Leadership School
Labor-Movement Pattern
Labor Organization in the US Zone
Labor Picture
Labor Union Advisers Kept Busy
Labor Unions .
Labor s Legislative Program
Labor's Responsibilities
Labor s Unfinished Tasks
Laender Advised to Adopt Decress
Laenderrat Addressed on Anniversary
Laenderrat and OMGUS Draft Program
Laenderrat Tackles Food Distribution
Laenderrat's Functions Given Bizone
Land Constitutions, The
Land Governments, The
Land Reform
Land Reform
Land Reform Progress
Land Wuerttemberg-Baden
Land Youth Conference
Landsberg, A Documentary Report
Last DP Family Sails
Latvians Move On
Law Books for Universities
Law No. 8 - Prohibition of Employment
Laws Establishing War-Crimes Trials
Leaders of the Unfinished Task, The
Leadership Training for Youth
Leather Industry
Legacy of Carl Schurz, The

Legal Aftairs

Administration of Justice, The
Bavaria’s Law Library
Civilianization of MG Courts
Clemency Bord
Control Council Legislation
Courts in Germany
Extradition Policy in US Zone
Future Lawyers
German Administration of Justice
German Justice Revamped
Habeas Corpus
HICOG Law No. 20
How Laws Are Made
It's the Law
Law Books for Universities
Legal Division
Legislative and Judicial Policy
MG Courts in Bavaria
New Criminal Justice for Germany
New Role in MG Courts
Patents System
Reich May Be Sued
Rule of Law
Legal Division
Legislative and Judicial Policy
Leipzig Fair
Leipzig Loses Publishing Prestige
Lesson to be Learned, A
Lesson to Learn, A
Leuschner House
Liberalizing Information Services
Liberty is at Stake

MARCH 1953

172
126

209
200

Libraries (see Informational Services)
Library of Congress Mission, The

23
Library on Wheels 201

Licenses for Newspapers and Publishers

Licensing Free Democratic German Press 26

Life in the Soviet Zone 205
Lights for Free Berlin 186
Little Church Behind the Curtain 188
Little Michel's Fear 184
Liquidation of Nazi Monuments 43
Liquidation of OMGUS 168
Local Self Rule 174
London Conference 127
Long Distance Service Returned 44
Look at the Land, A 177
Looking Stateward 192
Louise Childs 204
Low Cost of Occupation Stressed 180
Ludwigsburg Project 160
M
“Mach mit" - at RIAS 177
Mail out of Berlin 140
Mailman Gets a Home, The 177
Mainz Psalter Returned 179
Major Responsibility, The 188
Majority Endorses Adenauer 183
Majority Side with West in Cold War 181
Making German Tires 89
Manhunt for 6,000,000 190
Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow 196
Manpower (see Labor Affairs)
Manpower Division 79
Man's Passions and Prejudices 185
Many Names Applied to Red Heresies 211
Many Will Service, But ... 12
Marks Still Legal Currency 104
Marshall Plan and Western Germany 129
Maximization of Agriculture 112
Maximizing German Agriculture 53
May Day in Berlin 179
McCloys Bid ,,Auf Wiedersehen!"* 204
McNarney Explains Security Situation 64
26,865,000 Meals a Week 179
Meaning of Six-Power Agreement 138
Medical Associations 176
Medical Mission 184
Medical Mission in Germany 141
Medical Reform in Prisons Urged 183
Medical Supplied by Airlift 145
Meeting ,,Their Government"’ 197
Memorial to Airlift Dead 193
Message from America 187
Message from General Eisenhower
Message from Deputy Governor 74
Message to German Youth 187
Message to HICOG Personnel 172
MG Agencies Winding Up Denazification 43
MG and Germany's Youth 144
MG Courts in Bavaria 122
MG in the Field 78
MG Officials Meet the German Press 83
MG Officers (see Community Relations)
MG Plan Spurs New Trade 107
MG Policies, Regulations, Directives 78
MG School 138
MG's Task in Industry 90
MGO Teaches Democracy 159
MGO’'s Daily Work 150
Midway on the Main 182
Midway with ERP 177
Milan Fair and German Exhibits, The 137
Milch Sentence is Confirmed 98

Military (see Armed Forces)

Military Government (see US Administration)
2

Military Government and the DISCC’s

Military Government in Germany 10
Military Govrnment Regulations Sp I
Military Government Regulations 99
Military Government Reorganizes 18
Military Government Regulations Spl
Military Security Board 175
Mills of Death 30
Ministers-President’s Secretariat, The 17
Minor Political Parties 175
Missing Chrildren 96
Mission for 1950 175
Mission of Peace, A 187
Missionaries in Fritzlar 199
Model Classrooms Set Up in Bavaria 181
Model Fathers’ Club 179
Modern German Art 167
Modern Schools Planned 190
Monat, Der 147
Moral and Material Resistance 184
More and Better Food for Bizonal Germans 144
More Homes for Germans 19°
More Housing Planned in Ruhr 87
Moscow Conference . 92

51

Nuremberg Trials (see War Crimes Cases)

Motion Pictures Sp IV
Motion Pictures
Face is Familiar, The 190
Germany Goes to the Movies 186
Hollywood Stars Speak German 178
Impounded Films 118
International Film Exchange 209
Motion Pictures Sp IV
Movies on American Life Popular 179
US Films Ride the Rails 179
World in Film, The 70
Movies on American Life Popular 179
MSA Help to Farmers 211
Music (see Cultural Activities)
Music in Germany B
Musical Ties 200
Mutual Security Agency (see European
Recovery) -
Mutual Understanding . 194
. N
Nadolny Activities Attract Attention 162
Nation of Neighbors 193
Nation of Youth 195
Navy (see Armed Forces)
Navy's Job in Occupation, The 55
Navy's Role 165
Nazi Influence on Civil Service yzy
Need for Immunization 184
Neue Zeitung, Die 66
New Accent on Youth 184
New Approach to History 190
New Books for German Schools 9
New Books on Germany's Past 93
New Clothes from Old 159
New Consulate General in Frankfurt 194
‘New Criminal Justice for Germany 2
800 New Dwellings for Refugees 123
New Export Procedures Established 80
New German Citizens 46
New German Civil Service %
New Guide for Export Buyers 10:
New Homes for Refugees 178
New Horizons in Education 161
New Ideas for Women 173
New Ideas on Information 171
New Industrial Habits for Old 184
New Markets for Meat 189
New Networks for Germany 186
New ‘‘Nuremberg” Trials 67
New Rationing System 47
New Regulation Announced 121
New Role in MG Courts 101
New Rules for Allied Personnel 186
New Schools Arriving . 199
New Spirit in Old Prisons 205
New Stamps for Germany 61
New Standards for German Nursing 86
New Status for Women 160
- New Status of Germany 184
New System of Reporting, The Sp I
New Taxes for Germany 30
New Textbooks for German Schools 76
New Trends in Education 189
New Year's Message 198
New Year's Message 210
New York Display 156
Newspapers Assured of Keeping Plants 114
No Barter in International Trade 47
No Bread and Circuses for Germany 30
No Conditional Unity 187
No Easy Road to Lasting Peace 148
“Now Jt's up to the Germans” a
Nuremberg Girls’ Club 151
Nuremberg Trials 93
Nuremberg Trials 162

Nurnberg (Nuremberg) 164
Nutritional Survey 147
0
Oberammergau 173
Objective: Friendship 182
Occupation Costs 186
Occupation Problems Appraised 83
Occupation Statute ~ 160
Ocean Shipping Spi
OBEC Truck Caravan 183
Office of Public Affairs Sp IV
Official Population Estimates 107
OLCWB Seminar for Resident Officers 176
Old Farming Custom, An 185
Oldest Consulate in Germany 178
OMG Quits the Armies 22
OMGBS Rejects Soviet Charges 139
OMGUS Directive Clarifies Licensing 159
OMGUS Gives JRSO the Go-Ahead 144

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
OMGUS Personnel
OMGUS Reference Library

One Year of HICOG

One Year on the Border

Only American Radio Station
Open Forum Seminar

Open Forum Survey

Operation Better Kids

Operaticn ‘Lost and Found’
Operation ‘'Show-How!"
Organization for Economic Cooperation
Organization for Production Control
Orientation Program

Orientation via the Eye

Our Department of State

Our Foreign Policy

Our Foreign Policy 1952 - Germany
Our German Problem Today

Our German Publications

Our Mision in Germany

Out of the Rubble

Outlook for Winter Described
Outlook is Bright for 1949

Outlook in Wuerttemberg-Baden

P

,,Parade of Progress”
Parallels and Constrasts

Paris Conference

Parliamentary Advisory Council
Patents System

Partnership in Sacrifices

PCIRO

Penicillin Plant Dedicated
Penicillin Produced in Germany
Periodical Exchange Permitted
Personnel (see US Administration)
Petersberg Protocol

Pfennig Parade, The

Pforzheim America House

Phoenix at Reichswald

Picture Magazine for Germans
Plan for Liquidating War Potentials
Plan for Ruhr Coal Control

Plan for Safer Highways

Plan Submitted for Federal Setup
Plans for Terminating IAR

Plants for Reparations

Plight of Book Publishers

Plight of Industry

Police (see Security and Protection)
Police Reform

Police Schools

Police Teletype System in Hesse
Policies to Control War Potential
Policies on Replacing MG Personnel

Policy
Allied Policy on Germany
American Policy for Occupation
American Policy in Germany
Bremen MG Policy Outlined
Building Strength against Communism
Campaign of Truth
Communique of Paris Conference
Communique on European Unity
Democracy and the Occupation
Forgein Ministers’ Declaration
General Agreement
Germany and Democracy
Germany - Key to European Recovery
HICOG's Objective
Insistence on Free Elections
Message from General Eisenhower
Message from Deputy Governor
MG Policies, Regulations, Directives
Mission for 1950
Our Department of State
Our Foreign Policy
Our Foreign Policy 1952 - Germany
Our German Problem Today
Our Mission in Germany
Potsdam Conference Statement, The
Price Report, The

Progress in Germany
Seven Steps Towards Democracy
Six Points of US Policy
Task Ahead, The
Toward German Unity
US Economic Policy in Germany
US Policy in Europe
US Policy in Germany
US Policy on Germany
US Policy Toward Germany

Policy on Public Information

Policy Reviews
Achievements
»Befit a Free State’
Berlin Crisis, The

INFORMATION BULLETIN

156

Hee

155
146

By Collaboration of Free People 148
Declaration of Friendship 193
Determined Unity is Surest Hope 148
Eisenhower Sees MG Improvement 62
German Border Problem 124
No Easy Road to Lasting Peace 148
Objective: Friendship 182
Occupation Problems Appraised 83
Outlook is Bright for 1949 152
Reply to Friendship Resolution 194
Report on Germany 158
Secretary Acheson Visits Germany 173
Soviet Obstruction 191
Termination of the State of War 197
Test of Democracy 198
US Attitude on Bonn 170
We Want a Lasting Peace 59
Political Activities Sp I
Political Activities
Bavarian Political Scene 110
Christian Democratic Union 170
Christian Social Union 173
Communist Party 174
Democracy Catches On 26
Election Procedure Outlined 117
Election Results Show Democratic 27
Electoral Law 167
Evaluation of the German Vote 7
Federal Election Results 169
Founding of the SED 136
German Cities Go to the Poll 45
German Constitutions 130
German Political Scene, The 67
Germany Takes Another Step 42
Germany Votes 101
Germany's Liberal Groups 172
Glossary of Political Parties 113
January Elections, The 19
Land Constitutions, The 68
Liberty is at Sake 190
Minor Political Parties 175

Nadolny Activities Attract Attention 162

Political Activities sp I
Political Activtiy at Land Level 19
Political Aims at Bonn 172
Political Apathy 70
Political Parties 60
Political Parties 98
Political Parties 125
Political Parties 132
Political Picture 157
Politics and Military Government 6
Radical Right, The 194
Reactivation of Political Life 15 |
Revival of German Nationalism Seen 155
Social Democratic Party . WA
US Zone Elects Constitutional 50
West Germany Votes 167
Will Germans Welcome Democracy? 25

Political Activity at Land Level 19

Political Aims at Bonn 172

Political Apathy 70

Political Parties 60

Political Parties 98

Political Parties 125

Political Parties 132

Political Picture 157

Political Youth in Berlin 128

Politics and Military Government 6

Popularity of Information Centers 183

Population Census 70

Population Figures - US Zone 5

Populations (see Civil Affairs)

Porcelain, Old and New 191

Position of Advisory Parliament 85

Postage Stamps 157

Postal Services Spl

Postal Services, Telephone Sp I

Postwar Publishing 172

Postwar Textbooks Sp IV

Potato Drive Brings Results 137

Potsdam 53

Potsdam Conference Statement 3

Potsdam Reparations Begin 39

Potsdam to Bonn 161

Power of Open Forums 176

Powers of Economic Council Set 98

Practicing Democarcy 16t

Practicing the Golden Rule 182

Prefabricated Houses 67

Pre-Hitler Political Parties 4

Preparing for Citizenship 162

Present Status of Universities 191

Presenting Military Government to the Press 7
Preservation of Democracy 182

Press and Publications Sp IV
Press and Publications
Agreements for Interzonal Exchange 60

52

Basis for Press Laws 152
Competitive Press for Germany 39
DANA 59
DANA Receives MG License 66
Democratizing of Information 53
Distorting German History 176
Free Press and the Future 15
Freedom of the Press 150
German Books and Magazines 87
German News Service is Born 34
Germany's News Press 154
Information Please 31
Liberalizing German Information 63
Licenses for Newspapers, Publishers 1
Licensing a Free, Democratic Press 26
New Books on Germany's Past 93
New Ideas on Information 1AL
New Regulation Announced 121
Newspapers Assured of Keeping Plants 114
Periodical Exchange Permitted 103
Plight of Book Publishers 183
Postwar Publishing 172
Press and Publications ‘ Sp IV
Press on Display, The 137
Press Replies, The 184
Publishers Questions Answered 76
Restored and Reread 132
School of Journalism 165
Towards a Free German Press 52
US Zone Bars Soviet Journals 136
Validity of Mandatory Leases 180
1 Wir Alle’ (We All) 200
Press of Two Nations 201
Press on Display, The 137
Press Replies, The 184
Preventive Medicine 107
Price Control 66
Price Control (see Currency Control)
Price Report, The a
Principles on Freedom in Trade 180
Prisoners of War, Displaced Persons 81

Prisons (see Security and Protection)
Prisons in the US Zone

Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy

Prize Paccage: Freedom, The

Problem of Uniform Laws

Procedures for Restitution
Professions, the Universities

Program of Reeducation

Progress by Military Government
Progress in Economic Fusion

Progress in Germany

Progress in Germany

Progress in GYA

Progress in Hesse

Progress of Self-Government
Prohibited, Limited Industry
Promoting German Trade

Proof of Nazi Guilt
Propaganda ,,Protest"*
Property Control
Property Control (see Restitution)

Property Control Reverts to Government 47

Answered

Property Restitution 152
Proposal for Free Election 196
Proposed Denazification Program Ea
Prosecution of War Criminals Spl
Prosperity, Liberty, Security 210
Protest Demonstration in Bavaria 133
Public Affairs Programs 208
Public Approval of Nuremberg 66
Public Forum
Bavarian Public Forum 147
Bavaria's Sounding Board 179
Berlin's Open Forum 170
Open-Forum Seminar 164
Open Forum Survey 154
Power of Open Forums 176
Swabia Speaks Up 187
Town Hall Meeting 60
Town Meetings 140 -
Town of Two Nations 188

Public Health
Public Health

Public Health

Anti-Polio Drive Spreads 181
Battle Against Disease 51
Battle against TB 158
Battle for Health, The 8
Battle of the Winter, The 17
Combined Nutrition Survey 94
Drug Racket Curbed 130
First Step Toward Controlling 23
German Veterinary Laboratories cia
Health and Human Relations 196 .
Health and Welfare Sp IV
Health Problems in Bavaria 193
Health Resorts 1
MARCH 1953

--- Page 56 ---
Insect Control
Medical Associations
Medical Mission
Medical Mission in Germany
Need for Immunization
New Standards for German Nursing
Nutritional Survey
Parade of Progress

+ Penicillin Plant Dedicated
Penicillin Produced in Germany
Pfennig Parade, The
Preventive Medicine and Sanitation
Public Health
Public Health

Public. Health: A German Responsibility i

Results of the Ration Cut, The
Road Back to Health
Specter of Narcotics, The
Tuberculosis in the US Zone
Tuberculosis Strikes Again
White Plague

Public Health: German Responsibility

Public Information

Public Opinion

Public Opinion
Anti-Semitism in Germany
Berliners Elect to Remain
Community Leaders Querified
Darmstadt: Test-Lab of Opinion
Elections in Retrospect
Free-Enterprise Principle
Germany through the Eyes
Majority Endorses Adenauer
Majority Side with West
Public Approval of Nuremberg
Public Opinion
Reactions Analysis
Socialization of Industry Opposed
Students More Liberal than Elders
Survey of Youth Work
Two Concepts of Democracy
US Zone Germans Optimistic
What Do You Think?
What German Leaders Think
X-raying the German Mind
Young East Zone Skeptics

Public Relations

MG Officials Meet the German Press
Policy on Public Information

Presenting Military Government to the

Press
Public Information
Public Relations Division
Public Relations Division
Public Safety

7

17
Sp IV
Sp IV
81

Public Safety (see Security and Protection)

Public Safety in the US Zone

Public School Reform

Public Utilities

Public Welfare

Public Welfare

Public Welfare (see Welfare Activities)
Public Welfare — A Weimar Service
Public Welfare’s Mailbag

Publications (American)

America Book, The
Amerika Dienst
“Der Monat’ Outstanding
Der Monat
Die Neue Zeitung
Index
Index
Index
Index
Information Bulletin
Military Government Regulations
Military Government Regulations
Military Governor Monthly Report
New System of Reporting, The
Our German Publications
Picture Magazine for Germans
Publishing Operations
Report on Germany
Statement on Reporting
US Feature Service
Weekly Information Bulletin
Publishers Questions Answered
Publishing Operations
Puppet ‘People's Police’ Protested
PW Schools Train German Police

Q

Quadripartite Activity on Education
in Germany

Quadripartite Rupture in Berlin

Quiz Comes to Nuremberg, The

MARCH 1953

143
135
193

R

Radical Right, The

Radio Activities
Forum of the Air
Free Air for Germany
Free Radio is a Blessing
Germans Get ‘'Free’ Radio
German Radio
International Brotherhood and Radio
New Networks for Germany
Only American Radion Station
Radio Institute
Radio in US Zone
RIAS

RIAS
RIAS' Effectiveness in Poland
RIAS Inaugurates Transmitter
RIAS Scores with East Zone
RIAS, the Truth Crusader
Training Radio Talent
TV Comes to Berlin
Radio Institute
Radio in US Zone
Railroads (see Transportation)
Rationing (see Food and Rationing)
Reactions Analysis
Reactivation of Political Life
Real Issue in Berlin Crisis
Reconstruction
Big New Housing Projects
Building Rate Spurred
Cities from Ruins
Designs for Use, USA
ECA Housing Exposition on Tour
ERP House Building
ERP Providing Homes
From Huts to Houses
From Nissen Huts to New Homes
Guest in the House
Homes for Better Living
5,000,000 Homes Needed
House of Clay
Housing
Housing — A German Problem
Housing Construction Still Lags
Housing Problem, The
Karlsruhe Cleans Up
Karlsruhe Harbor
Mailman Gets a Home, The
More Homes for Germans
More Housing Planned in Ruhr
Prefabricated Houses
Schluechtern Plan, The
Sonthofen Case, The
US Architects Display Ideas
‘War Comes Home for the Winter
Recovery and Protection of Art
Red Cross Help for Needy
Rediscovering the New World
Reeducating German Youth
Re-Education in Germany
Reform Brings Out Consumer Goods
Reforming Juvenile Delinquents
Refugee Camp °
Refugee Capital: Berlin
Refugee Enterprise
Refugee Glassmakers
Refugee Handicraft
Refugee Shoemaker
Refugees (see Dislodged Populations)
Refugees and Expellees
Refugees Helping Themselves
Rehabilitation for Emigration
Reich May Be Sued, Court Rules
Reichspost — A Monopoly
Relation of German Coal Industry
Relief by Parcel Post
Religion in Germany Today
Religious Activity
Religious Affairs
Religious Affairs
Religious Affairs

Religious Affairs
Art of Giving Thanks, The
Church Social Problems
Evangelical Bridge
Faith — Barrier to Tyranny
German Church, The
German-Jewish Relations
Holy Year Pilgrimage
Jewish Communities
Religion in Germany Today
Religious Activity
Religious Affairs
Religious Affairs
Religious Affairs
Religious Cooperation
Restoration of Churches

93

Significance of Moral Values

Talmud Returns, The

Working Together
Religious Cooperation
Rembrandt Exhibition
Removal for Reparations
Removal of Nazis and Militarists
Reopening Administrative Courts
Reopening German Universities
Reopening Labor Courts
Reorganization of Steel Industries
Reorientation of Germany
Reparation Revision

Reparations

Basis of Reparations Program

Dismantling Norddeutsche Huette

For Reparations: 185 Plants

Goods Allocated to Allies

Plants for Reparations

Potsdam ‘Reparations Begin

Removal for Reparations

Reparation Revision

Reparations by Paris Conference

Reparations Policy Told

Status of Reparations Clarified

Third Reparations Allotment

US Reparations Policy
Reparations by Paris Conference
Reparations Policy Told

Repatriation (see Dislodged Populations)

Repatriation of US Citizens
Reply to Friendship Resolution
Report on Germany

Report on Germany

Report on Germany

Report on Progress

Report to America

Resident Officers

Resident Officers

Sp IV

Resident Officers (see Community Relations)

Resident Officers’ Conference
Resistance Preferred by Berliners
Restitution

Restitution and Restoration

August Shipments First to Soviets
Back from the Salt Mines
Cultural Articles Returned
Cultural Goods Restituted
Germans Will Restitute Victims
Germany Makes Restitution
HICOG Law No. 21
Jubileumsbau at Marburg
Mainz Psalter Returned
OMGUS Give JRSO the Go-Ahead
Operation “Lost and Found”
Procedures for Restitution
Property Control
Property Control Reverts to Land
Property Restitution
Recovery and Protection of Art
Restitution
Restitution of Works of Art
Restitution Programm Reviewed
Restoration
Returned Masterworks
Search for Looted Art
Silver Train to Hungary
US Returns German Art
Restitution of Works of Art
Restitution Programm Reviewed
Restoration
Restoration of Churches
Restoration of Communications
Restored and Re-read
Restoring Administrative Machinery
Results of the Ration Cut
Returned Masterworks
Returning PW's
Reverence for Life
Review of 1947
Review of ERP Aid
Review of JEIA

Reviews (general)

America’s Faith in Europe
Appraising Cost of Peace
Bavaria's Progress

Cornerstone of a Better Future
Defense of Common Freedom
Defense of Democracy
Democratization Progressing
Five-Year Inventory

Five Years after Potsdam

For Better Understanding

Free Vote for Unity

French Point of View, The
Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable
Germany in World Defense

148
82

63
15
204
132
41
179
192
19
179

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
Germany Today
Germany Today
Germany's Future
Germany's Problems
Hesse's Progress
International Aspect, An
International Situation
Legacy of Carl Schurz, The
Lesson to Learn, A
Major Responsibility, The
Moral and Material Resistance
New Approach to History
New Status of Germany
New Year's Message
New Year's Message
One Year of HICOG
Parallels and Contrasts
Partners in Sacrifice
Practicing the Golden Rule
Preservation of Democracy
Progress in Germany
Rediscovering the New World
Reorientation of Germany
Report on Germany
Report on Progress
Report to America
Selling Freedom
Sixth Column, The
Speeches of High Commissioner
Spirit of Carl Schurz, The
Tasks for the Coming Year
Through British Spectacles
Truth and Freedom
Unity and Strength
Way of Democracy
Where Freedom Begins
Revised Plan for Level of Industry
Revival of Communications
Revival of German Nationalism Seen
Revolution of 1848
Rhineland America House
Rhine River Commission
RIAS
RIAS
RIAS' Effectiveness Evident
RIAS Inaugurates Transmitter
RIAS Scores with East Zone
RIAS, The Truth Crusader
RIAS under Eastern Fire
Road Back to Health
Road to Recovery Seen in Berlin
Role of the University
Role of UNRRA in the DP Operation
Ruhr Authority
Ruhr Coal
Ruhr Coal and European Recovery
Ruhr Coal Industry
Ruhr Industry's Problems
Ruhr — Vital to Recovery, The
Ruhr's Information Center
Rule of Law
Rural Community Centers

8

Sacred Rights of Free Expression
Saga of an Expellee

Salzgitter

Santa in Blue

“Save Our Children!”
Schluechtern Plan, The

School Clean-Up Day

School Financing

School Kids Meet the Mayor
School of Journalism

School Reform in Bavaria
School Reform in Hesse

School Village on Bergstrasse
Schools for Democracy
Schornsteinfeger Club

Schuman Plan and Germany, The
Schuman Plan Treaty Signed
Science for the Farmer

Scientific Harvest Surveys
Search for Looted Art

Search for Truth
Second RO's Conferei
Secretary Acheson Visits Germany

Security and Protection
Anti-Rearmament Law
Bavaria Crime Laboratory
Border Police
Clemency Board
Cooperation Solving Bremen Traffic
Formula for Peace 5
German Scientific Research
Highway Patrol
Highway Patrol
McNamey Explains Security

INFORMATION BULLETIN

179
114

WF
212
198
161
195
168
177

64

Medical Reform in Prisons
Military Security Board
New Spirit in Old Prisons
Police Given More Duties
Police Reform
Police Schools
Police Teletype System in Hesse
Prisons in the US Zone
Public Safety
Public Safety in the US Zone
PW Schools Train German Police
Reforming Juvenile Delinquents
US Constabulary
US Constabulary Prepares
Seeds of Understanding
Seeing for Themselves
1,442,647 See “Train of Europe"
Selling Freedom
Seminary in Democracy
Services Offered Visiting Buyers
Settlement of German Debts
Seven Steps Towards Democracy
Shipment Begun on Largest Export
Show Windows of Bizonal Exports
Showcase of Bavarian Industry
Significance of Moral Value
Silver Train to Hungary
Singers with a Message
Six Points of US Policy
Sixth Column, The
Smokers, Drinkers Hit by Taxes
Soapbox Derby
Social Democratic Party
Social Insurance in Germany
Social Unity Party, The
Socialization of Industry Opposed
Soldier Trio Share Instruments
Sonthofen Case, The
Southwest State, The
Soviet Blockade Fails to Subjugate
Soviet Obstruction
Soviet Tightens Press Shackles
Soviet Prophecies Backfire
Soviet Zone Adulation for USSR
Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan
Soviet Zone Press, The
Soviet Zone Theater

Soviets and Communism

All is Not Well in Soviet Zone
By Streetcar to Freedom
Communist Press in Western Germany
Communist Concern over Refugees
Control in Soviet Zone
Czechoslovakia — A Cause for Hope
Czechoslovakia a Concentration Camp
East Zone Government
East German Schools Sovietized
Fallacy of ‘Stockholm Resolution”
Fighters Against Inhumanity
“T Hate Communism”

Leipzig Fair

Leipzig Loses Publishing Prestige
Life in the Soviet Zone

Many Names Applied to Red Heresies
Propaganda "Protest Answered
Puppet ‘‘People's Police’ Protested
Revolution of 1848

RIAS under Eastern Fire

“Save Our Children’

Social Unity Party, The

Soviet Zone Adulation for USSR
Soviet Tighten Press Shackles
Soviet Prophecies Backfire

Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan
Soviet Zone Press, The

Soviet Zone Theater

Soviets Delay Repatriation
"Spontaneous" East-Zone Protests
Student Purge in Soviet Zone
Survey Exposes Soviet Education
Tale of the Potato Bug

US Notes on PW's

War of Words

Why "Vopos"’ Desert

Youth Flee Service in Army
Youth under Communism

Soviets Delay Repatriation

Spandau Receives War Criminals

Special Consideration for Germans

Special Labor Congress

Special Services

Specter of Inflation, The

Specter of Narcotics, The

Speeches of US High Commissioner

Spirit of Carl Schurz, The

“Spontaneous’’ East-Zone Protests

SS United States at Bremerhaven

Stagnant Inflation

Stamping Out of Racial Prejudice

34

200
208

211
176
131
195
176
190

183
194

Stateless Jews and Harrison Report i
Status of Denazification 188
Status of Reparations Clarified 195
STEG 158
St. Erik's Trade Fair 144
Stock Exchanges 83.
Streamlining OMGUS 131
Streamlining Spurs JEIA Progress 129
Struggle for German Unity, The 201
Struggle for Production 49
Student Exchange 149
Student Participation at University 195
Student Purge in Soviet Zone 209
Student Self-Help 153
2,618,000 Students 65
Students More Liberal than Elders 180°
Stuttgart US Information Center 176
Sudetens Come Home 178
Summary of Schuman Plan Treaty 189
Survey Exposes Soviet Zone Education 187
Survey of Youth Week 97
Surveying the Occupation 187
Swabia Speaks Up 187
Swiss Vacations for German Children 107
Swords into Plowshares ri
Symbol of Appreciation 200
Symbol of Quadripartite Cooperation 46
T
Tale of the Potato Bug 182
Talmud Returns, The 184
Task Ahead, The 5
Tasks for the Coming Year 184
Taxation (see Finance)
Taxes, Public Finance Sp I
Teacher Education Sp IV
Teachers Go Back to School 184
Teacher Training 92
Telling What ERP Does 166
Termination of State of War 197
Test of Democracy 198
Text of London Debt Communique 205
Text of Occupation Statute 161
Textile and Clothing Industry 172
Theater (see Cultural Activities)
Theater and Music Sp IV
Theater, The 69
Theater Reorganization Plan 85
Theater Returns to Bavaria 26
These are the Accused 58
They Got the Bus Rolling 183
They Seek the Missing 144
Third ECA Investment Program 189
Third Reparations Allotment 95
Three Great Steps, The 202
Three Years of GYA 158
Through British Spectacles 184
Today's Coal Situation 194
Today's Women of Germany 145
Tokens of Friendship 194
Torches Pierce ‘Iron Curtain” 202
Touring the Border 191
Tourist "Dollar Drive’ 175
Toward a Unified Reich? 36
Toward German Unity 200
Towards a Free German Press 52
Towards Bringing Materials 15
Towards Civil Administration 19
Town Hall Meeting 60
Town of Two Nations 188
Toys 124
Trade and Commerce 1946—1947 4
Trade and Commerce 82
Trade and Commerce
Bavaria’s Vacationland 154
Boost for Trade, A 185
Breaking Down Interzonal Barriers 48
Cotton Plan for Germany 101
Dollar Drive 179
Export-Import Program 6
Finding Dollar Markets 184
Foreign Trade Based on Reichsmark 112.
German Foreign Trade — 1945 7
German Import Program 128
Germany Enters World Trade 36
Germany's Foreign Trade Extended AL
Germany's Role in World Markets 166
Hessian Exports tit
Import and Export Control sp!
Imported from the US Si
New Markets for Meat 189
No Barter in Interzonal Trade a
Ocean Shipping Spt
Promoting German Trade 192
Shipment of Largest Export Order 66
Showcase of Bavarian Industry 61
Tourist Dollar Drive 175
Trade and Commerce 1946—1947 4”

MARCH 1953

--- Page 58 ---
Trade and Commerce
We Must Export...

Trade (JEIA)

Bizonia’s Trade Agreement Program
Export Buyers Guide to Germany
Foreign Visitors
Free Enterprise for Foreign Trade
German Imports
Germans Pay Import Costs
Hotels for Tourists, Businessmen
How JEIA Works
JEIA Plan Permits Freer Trade
JEIA Review 4 Months of Work
Milan Fair and German Exhibits
New Export Procedures Established
New Guide for Export Buyers
New York Display
Review of JEIA
Services Offered Visiting Buyers
Show Windows for Bizonal Exports
St. Erik’s Trade Fair, The
Streamlining Spurs JEIA Progress

Trade Union Activities

Trade Union Federation

Trade Unions (see Labor Affairs)

Trade Unionism Growing

Training for Citizenship

Training for Production

Training Radio Talent

Training Social Workers

Training Youth Leaders

Transport

Transportation

Battle of the Rhine
Bremen Port, The
Bridge Reconstruction
Canals of Western Germany
Coordination of Rail Transportation
German Civil Transportation System
Germany's Inland Waterways
Highways of the US Zone
Inland Shipping
Inland Waterways and Railroads
Plan for Safer Highways
Rhine River Commission
SS United States at Bremerhaven
Transport
Transportation is Our Business
Transportation Responsibility
Transportation Revival
Water Police
Transportation is our Business
Transportation Responsibility
Transportation Revival
Troop Information and Education
Truth and Freedom
Tuberculosis in the US Zone
Tuberculosis Strikes Again
Tuebingen America House
TV Comes to Berlin
Two Concepts of Democracy
Two Decrees on Denazification

U

US Administration (HICOG)
HICOG Builds for the Future
HICOG Field Offices Complete
HICOG Houses its Employees
HICOG Moves to Bonn
HICOG Organization
Historical Studies
Message to HICOG Personnel
New Consulate General in Hamburg
Office of Public Affairs
Oldest Consulate in Germany
Orientation via the Eye
US Consulates Come Back
US Consulates in Germany
US State Observers
Workers Turn Over Bonn Projects

US Administration (OMGUS)

Abbreviations Used in Occupation
Achievements of MG Appraised
Berlin Command

BICO Compiles List of Abbreviations
Complaint Office

Consolidation of Military Government
Demise of Military Government
ECAD Ends 19 Months Service
Executive Officer

Field Seminars

Intelligence Report

Internal Affairs Division

Land Governments, The

Liquidation of OMGUS

MG School

MARCH 1953

82
178

142

163
125
151
155
150
137
150
136
137

107
156
171

112
144
129
sp I
165

184
179
149
169

162
81

203
202
187
197
167
184
172
194

Sp IV
178
180
183

183
192

Military Government and DISCC's 2
Military Government Changes 10
Military Government Reorganizes 18
OMG Quits the Armies 22
Orientation Program 58
Progress by Military Government 67
Streamlining OMGUS 131
Theater Reorganization Plan 85
US Military Government Consolidates 33
US Organization for Military Govt. 8
USFET Proclamation No. 1 1
US Architects Display Ideas 184
US Attitude on Bonn 170
US Blames Soviets for ACC Impasse 134
US Constabulary 129
US Constabulary Prepares 36
US Consulates Come Back 183
US Consulates in Germany 51
US Drama in Germany 150
US Economic Policy in Germany 24
US Editorial View Nuremberg 63
US Feature Service sp IV
US Films Ride the Rails 179
US Information Centers 55
US Information Centers 100
US Information Centers Sp Iv

US Military Government Consolidates 33
US Notes of PW's 154
US Organization for Military Gov't 8
US Personnel

Commissioner McCloy
Duties for L&S Office Defined 88

Efficiency Rating 162
Employee Morale 174
Employee Relations 56
Employee Training 164
Employee Utilization 161
Employment Guide for Household Help 199
Establishing High Commission 163
HICOG Improves Its German 210
HICOG Learns German 183
HICOG Staff Planning 179
High Commissioner Donnelly Departs 210

Indigenous Personnel Office 76

James B. Conant as High Commissioner 212
Key HICOG Personnel 172
Key MG Personnel 117
Key MG Personnel 126
Key MG Personnel 131
Key MG Personnel 138
Key MG Personnel 147
Key MG Personnel 158
Key MG Personnel in US Occupation 110
McCloys Bid ‘Auf Wiedersehen!"’ 204
New Rules for Allied Personnel 186
OMGUS Personnel 156

Policies on Replacing Personnel 9

US Representatives in ACA

Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy

Walter J. Donnelly as Commissioner
US Policy in Europe 191

US Policy in Germany 102
US Policy on Germany 162
US Policy toward Germany Clarified 188
US Proposal for Europe to Help Self 99
US Reparations Policy 45
US Representatives in ACA 128
US Returns German Art 147
US State Observers 183
US Women Leaders Touring Germany 190
US Zone Bars Soviet Journals 136
US Zone Centralizes Reichspost 42
US Zone Elects Assemblies 50
US Zone Germans Optimistic on Future 145
Use of Anti-Nazi Groups sp I
USFET Proclamation No. 1 1
Utilities sp
Understanding through Generous Help 206
UNICEF 174

United States’ Stake in Economic Recovery 97

Unity and Strength 186
v
Verdict, The 62
View of Labor, A 187
Vigil on the Border 189
Visit to United States 159
Visiting American Artists 142
Visual Arts 165
Vocational Education Sp IV
Voluntary Assistance 176

Voluntary Relief Supplies 45

Ww

Wagner Returns to Bayreuth 189
Walter J. Donnelly as Commissioner 204
Wanted: Publicity Campaign 186
War Comes Home for the Winter 14

55

War Crimes Cases

Approach to Clemency Decisions 190
Editorials See Justice in Nuremberg 63
Forerunner of Nuremberg 135
Forvige Us Our Trespasses 29
Germans Convinced Nuremberg 61
Halder’s Diary 112
Indictment Against Nazism, The 33
J'Accuse! ("I Accuse’’) 34
Justice Case 138
Landsberg, A Documentary Report 187
Laws Establishing War-Crimes Trials Sp VII
Milch Sentence is Confirmed 98
New Nuremburg Trials 67
Nurnberg (Nuremberg) 164
Nuremberg Trials “93
Nuremberg Trials 162"
Proof of Nazi Guilt 58
Prosecution of War Criminals Sp I
Spandau Receives War Criminals 104
These Are the Accused 58
US Editorial View Historical 63
Verdict, The 62

War of Words 205

Water Police 70

Waterways (see Transportation)

Way of Democracy 176

Weather Forecasting 113

Weekly Information Bulletin 125

Wehrmacht Lands 56

Welfare Activities
Adoption Law Approved 122
American Christmas Spirit 186
American Friends in Germany 198
American Good Will 126
Bavaria Helps Its Blind 138
Berlin's Women's Club 177
CARE 89
CARE Legend, The 181
Christmas Good Will 2iL
Christmas Parties 152
Crailsheim Experiment 121
CRALOG 120
Fellowship of Love 177
Friends in Germany 115
Gift Parcels 100
Gift Parcels from the US 52
GYA Christmas Plans 173
Hand-Built. City 117
Louise Childs 204
“Mach Mit" — at RIAS 177
Public Welfare Sp I
Public Welfare 80
Public Welfare's Mailbag 179
Red Cross Help for Needy 99
Relief by Parcel Post 175
Returning PW's 111
Santa in Blue 185
Schornsteinfeger Club 150
Swiss Vacations for Children 107
Tokens of Friendship 194
Training School Workers 98
Understanding through Help 206
UNICEF 174
Voluntary Relief Supplies 45

We Live in a Glass House 198

Welt, Die 96

We Must Export... 178

West Berlin Enjoys Better Conditions 147

West German Steel Industry 182

West Germany Votes 167

Western Notes Reject Soviet Charges 208

Western Germany Has Progressed 168

We Want a Lasting Peace 59

What are We Doing for German Youth 190

“What Do You Think” 177

What German Leaders Think 87

What is Militarism? 20

What Germans Will Eat This Winter 5

Where Freedom Begins 208

White Plague 139

Who's Who in the Federal Cabinet 191

Why Are We in Germany? 120

Why “Vopos’’ Desert 193

Will Germans Welcome Democracy? 25

Windows to the West 181

“Wir Alle (We All) 200

Woman's World, A 188

Women and Reconstruction, The 97

Women in Germany 189

Women in Hesse 202

Women in Industry 176

Women of North Germany 177

Women's Affairs Sp IV

Women’s Afiairs
Common Problems — Common Front —_ 196
Control Council Reforms Marriage 32
Day Care Centers 113

INFORMATION. BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Dream-Come-True_House 194 Youth Activities Sp IV
Farm Women of Germany 106
German Women Evalute Visits 200 Youth Activities
German Women Learn about UN 199 American, German Youth Cooperate 150
German Women Shed their Shackles "AF Berlin Youth Rebuff Bavarian Reds 196
German Women's Organizations 135 Big Brothers, “Little Leaguers’’ 186
Germany Needs Its Women 185, Castle Inc. 125
Hand of Friendship 192 Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth 194
Home Economics for Farm Women 153 Farm Youth Speaks Out 181
Intelligent Understanding 187 Freedom to Meet 194
New Ideas for Women 173 Friendship Camps 195
New Status for Women 160 Girl Scouts 155
Search for Truth 188 Hanover Youth Forum 209
Today's Women of Germany 145 Home for the Wanderer 186
US Women Leaders Touring Germany —190 House That Youth Built, The 179
Woman's World, A 188 Juvenile Detention Home 93
Women and Reconstruction, The oF New Accent on Youth 184
Women in Germany 189 Nuremberg Girls Club 151
Women in Hesse 202 School Kids Meet the Mayor 180
Women in Industry 176 Wooden Road to Safety 189
Women of North Germany 177 Young Citizens Held Forum 196
Women's Affairs Sp Iv Youth at the Helm 193
Women's Responsibilities 184 Youth for International Union 198
Women's Role Today 192 Youth Help Run City for a Day 186
Women's Responsibilities 184 Youth Learns Government 193
Women's Role Today 192 Youth Parliament 102
Wooden Road to Safety 189 Youth Problem Implemented 80
Worker Goes to School, The 193 Youth Settlements in Bavaria 104
Workers’ Education 99 Youth Week 174
Workers Turn Over Bonn Projects 191
Working Together * 193 Youth Activities (GYA)
Works Council at Stuttgart Plant 130 Ambassadors in Khaki 174
Works Councils in Germany 48 Armed Forces Assistance 149
World in Film, The , 70 Army Outlines Aid to Youth 64
World Oldest Stained-Glass Windows 185 Army's Role in GYA, The 7
World's Worst Theater 189 Babe Ruth Club. 160
Baskettball Comes Back 188
x Boys Town Observes Anniversary 160
Golden Gloves 152
X-raying the German Mind 39 GYA Civic Centers 109
GYA Conference 95
Y New Clothes from Old 159
Occupation Troops, Youth Activities 16
Year of Potsdam, A 68 Progress in GYA 164
Young Citizens Hold Forum 196 Singers with a Message 190
Young East Zone Skeptics 200 Soapbox Derby 163
Young Farmers Return 190 Three Years of GYA 158

Youth Activities Program 62
Youth and Civic Responsibilities 176
Youth Helps Youth 150
Youth Program 6
Youth Activities Program 62
Youth and Civic Responsibility 176
Youth and German Defense 187
Youth at the Helm 193
Youth Flee Service in Soviet Zone 210
Youth for International Union 198
Youth Help Run City for a Day 186
Youth Helps Youth 150
Youth Hostels 92
Youth Learns Government 193
Youth Organizations 146
Youth Organizations and Politics 21
Youth Organizations Developing 17
Youth Parliament 102
Youth Program 6
Youth Program
Amnesty for Youth 50
Another Chance for German Youth 38
Big Difference, The 186
German Youth Problems 95
Land Youth Conference 67
Leadership Training for Youth 185
Message to German Youth 187
MG and Germany's Youth 144

Re-educating German Youth 96

Reverence for Life 182
Training Youth Leaders 162
What are We Doing for Youth? 190
Youth Activities Sp IV
Youth Hostels 92
Youth Organizations 146
Youth Organizations and Politics 21
Youth Organizations Developing 176
Youth — Big Problem in Germany 40
Youth's Greatest Opportunity 192
Youth Program Implemented 80
Youth Self-Help 181
Youth Settlements in Bavaria 104
Youth — Big Problem in Germany 40
Youth under Communism 178
Youth Week 174.
Youth's Greatest Opportunity 192

Abbreviations used in the titles of articles stand for the
following names and phrases:

ACA
BICO
CARE
CCG (BE) —
CRALOG —
DANA
DISCC
DM

DP

ECA
ECAD
ERP
EUCOM
FIAT
GYA
HICOG
HICOM
ICD
JEIA
MG
OEEC
OMG
OMGUS
OMGUSZ
PCIRO
PW
RIAS
SHAEF
UNRRA
USFET
USGCC

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Allied Control Authority

Bipartite Control Office

Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe
Control Council for Germany (British Element)
Cooperative of Relief Agency Licensed for Operation in Germany
German news agency (US operated)

District Information Services Control Command
German currency (since June 1948)

Displaced Persons

Economic Cooperative Administration

European Civil Affairs Division

European Recovery Program

European Command

Field Information Agency Technical

German Youth Activities (Armed Forces assistance to)
Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany
Allied High Commission

Information Control Division

Joint Export-Import Agency

Military Government

Organization for European Economic Cooperation
Office of Military Government

Office of Military Government for Germany (US)

Office of Military Government for Germany (US Zone)
Preparatory Commission for International Refugee Organization
Prisoner of war

Radio in American Sector (US-operated)

Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Forces
United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration
United States Forces European Theater

United States Group Control Council.

56

Communist Propaganda: The Berliner
Zeitung, a newspaper published in the
Soviet Sector of Berlin published on
Jan. 27 the map (on the opposite page)
alleging to show that western Berlin
is a horrible place. Even at the time
this map was published, hundreds of
residents of the surrounding Soviet-
dominated territories were pouring
daily into the same area to seek refuge
and asylum from oppression. Below
are direct translations of the labels
applied in the Berliner Zeitung to cer-
tain designated spots. Most of the
labels are distortions and false, for in-
stance, “No. 19, Olympic Stadium, off
limits to Germans,” was returned to
German control four years ago and
has been the scene of many German

sporting events.

1, “Centre Jeanne d’Arc,"’ barracks and
Foreign Legion Recruiting Office.

2, ‘Camp Foch" barracks (Waidmannslust S-
Bahn station); tank repair shop at 1,000
meter distance. .

3. Concrete runway at “‘Dachsbau‘’ to Hei-
ligensee.

4. Construction of new training center for
BDJ terrorists.

5. Barracks for Belgian occupation forces.

6. Bureau of Fighting Union of German Youth
(BDJ) at Tegel.

7. Jungfernheide training grounds and shoot-
ing ranges.

8 Military airfield (construction cost about
55 million West marks).

9. “Quartier Napoleon” barracks of French
occupation forces.

10. Muellerstrasse barracks.

11. Terror Center, 5 Thurneusserstrasse,
Wedding borough.

MARCH 1953 ~

--- Page 60 ---
a1.
22.
23.

24.

25.

26.

. Stegerstrasse runway for tanks.

. Fenn Bridge, reinforced to carry tanks.
- Beusselstrasse, reinforced to carry tanks.
. Agents’ and refugee camp at Salzufer.

. Prison area used for war games.

Invalidenstrasse, reinforced to carry tanks.

. Spree Bridge, reinforced to carry tanks.
. Olympic Stadium, off limits for Germans

(ammunition depot).

‘Association of Political Refugees from the
East," 81 Hohenzollerndamm.

BDJ terror group, 11 Dernburger Strasse.
Kuno-Fischer Strasse Refugee Center.
Laboratory for production of terror and di-
versionist media. II b Department of Fight-
ing Group against Inhumanity, and Eastern
Library, 106 Kurfuerstendamm.,

So-called ‘Committee for the Liberation of
Victims of Totalitarian Arbitrariness,”*

156 Bundesallee.

BDJ branch office of Wilmersdorf borough,
16 Bernhardstrasse.

Quarters of the volunteer labor service on
Heerstrasse (Decoration of youths to soldier
services).

27.
28.

29.
30.

3.
32.
33.
34.
35.

36.
37.

38.
39.
40.
41.

S22,

Q barlenfeld

Zoolog.
Garlen

&

“<@

50)

y
Grunewald

a

Gun emplacements and observation post
behind Tapiauer Allee.

Post-Fenn training grounds for tanks and
mine-throwers.

Troop drilling grounds at Avus highway.
Assembly grounds for British tanks at
Roseneck.

Agents’s recruiting center of “Telegraf™
(daily newspaper), 1 Bismarck Platz.
Influx camp for ‘‘political refugees’, Kron-
berger Strasse, Grunéwald.

“CDU Eastern Bureau’, 4 Reichstrasse.
Gatow war air base.

Headquarters of American warmongers near
Wannsee station.

Shooting range near Wannsee beach.
American military training area between
Avus highway and Havel river.

So-called ‘‘Fighting Group against In-
humanity," 2-4 Ernst Ring Strasse.
Zehlendorf West center of espionage, Salz-
strasse.

So-called “Investigating Committee of Free
Jurists,"" 29 Limastrasse.

Ammunition and arms depot close to Duep-
pel S-Bahn station.

Lichterfelde-

Stid

42. Barracks on Kronprinzenallee (Clay Allee)
in Dahlemhousing the American comman-
dant and his staff.

43. Ammunition bunker and motor pool on Ber-
liner Strasse.

44. Barracks for German mercenary forces at
Botanical Gardens.

45. Group of the Hildebrandt-Tillich Murder
Organization (Fighting Group against In-
humanity) in Steglitz Labor Office, Birk-
buschstrasse (Code Name: Files)

46. Lankwitz Barracks.

47. Meeting place of a BDJ gang in Schoene-
berg borough, Eythstrasse, Lindenhofbaude.

48. US propaganda station “‘RIAS", 69 Kuf-

steiner Strasse.

Tempelhof war air base.

Gitschiner Strasse, reinforced to carry tanks.

. Karl Marx Square in Neukoelln borough,

received cement layer for heavy artillery.

52. Siegfriedstrasse, reinforced to carry tanks.

53. So-called refugee camps (Mariendorf-Lich-

terfelde-Marienfelde). Here criminal elements

are recruited and armed by American in-
structors for sabotage.

--- Page 61 ---
?
—

£

a

hy

“I can’t believe it!" said this Bulgarian escapee on inspecting a new pair of well-made
leather shoes to replace his crudely-fashioned ones on arrivat at the Escapee Pro-
gram’s Lavrion Camp in Greece. (see article “The Escapee Program“ on page 7)