--- Page 2 ---
puts

SS United States
In Bremerhaven

»

aH

(see page 5)

on
aS

THIS ISSUE:
Espelkamp — “Operation Pioneer” page 7
: HICOG Improves Its German page 11 1953
. Classrooms of Democracy page 13

--- Page 3 ---
Drivers of the 76th Trucking Company of Hanau volunteered to transport Christmas gifts from Ruhr donors to ref-
ugee families in Bavaria. (left) Ist Lt. Levis P. Munard of the 76th receives symbolic parcel from Gert Friedel of

Bonn at ceremony Dec. 17. (right) Drivers line up before their US Army 6-ton trailer trucks in Bonn before starting
for Bavaria. (HICOG photos)

(left) Mrs. George L. Lynch (center), president of the American Women’s Club of Berlin, presents radios from club
to refugee camps. (right) Eli Whitney Debevoise (center), acting US high commissioner, presents first CARE pack-
age to Mrs. Sophie Kraemer of Bonn of 60 given five large German welfare agencies, as her children and the Rev-
Theodor Holling, representing the agencies, look on. (HICOG photos)

(left) DM 2,356.82 ($560), raised at German-American Friendship Dance, is presented by Col. Douglas G. Gilbert
(left), Giessen Detachment commander, to Wilhelm Koehler of Technical University for use by US soldiers of uni-
versity athletic field. (right) Mrs. Ann Higgins and Miss Faye Barnes (left) and Mrs. Barnes (right) help underpriv-
ileged children of Berlin try on clothing donated by the American Women’s Club of Berlin. (US Army photos)

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff

Editor ............. H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor. Henry A. Goodman
Feature Writer... ..... Carl Neuhof

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8728, 8896, 8958

Mehlem Office

HICOG Building, Wing V, Room 321
Telephone: Mehlem 3073

The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, and distributed, by
the Printing and Distribution Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located in Bad Godes-
berg-Plittersdorf.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, US Army

Correspondence concerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Public Affairs
Field Center or the American Con-
sulate General.

Correspondence concerning inquir-
ies and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

January 1953

Prosperity — Liberty — Security .......... 2
Message by Dr. Konrad Adenauer

New Year’s Message... .............. 3
Broadcast by Samuel Reber

Oldest Foreign Service Local Employee Dies .... . 4

SS United States at Bremerhaven .......... 5
Address by Dr. Hans-Christoph Seebohm
Address by Samuel Reber

Espelkamp — Operation Pioneer. .......... 7
Article by Wilbert B. Dubin

Berlin Regaining Tourist Status ........... 10

HICOG Improves Its German ............ 11
Article by Friedrich Forstmeier

Baptistry Presented Plittersdorf Church ....... 12

Classrooms of Democracy .............. 13
Article by Paul Phillips

Youth Flee Service in Soviet Zone’s Army ..... . 15

High Commissioner Donnelly Departs ....... 16-17
Pictorial Feature

Personnel Notes... 2... 2... 2 ee ee eee 19
German Editorials. ................. 20
Official Announcements ............... 26
EImdex 2 0 0 ww ee ee ew ew we ww 27

Listing of 1952 Articles

Berlin Ceremonies. .... 1... ....6225. 33
Pictorial}

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
‘ERUTIIIUUVAIUUUUEU TETANY

LEN

Prosperity
Liberty

Security

Translation of Christmas Message

By Dr. Konrad Adenauer
Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany

Dos THE PAST few weeks and months, the German people have joined in the most im-

portant political issue that has arisen in the Federal Republic since its coming into existence.
The subject of the controversy was the German-Allied treaty system whose meaning and signif-
icance should have become clear by this time to everybody in Germany. All of you have wit-
nessed also the extraordinary passion with which arguments for and against the treaties were
brought forth. Some people will have wondered whether or not propriety was kept at all times.
But passion can not be separated from politics, and even appears to be justified, if the issue at
stake is vital for the existence of the nation.

In view of the irritation and uneasiness in the minds of only too many of us at the present
time, I believe that we rarely did need the rest and recollection of the Christmas season as
much as we do in this year. The holidays offer an opportunity to see things at a distance and
to approach a deeper and clearer understanding of our situation. We have to realize that in as
great a controversy as is going onin our country at this time it is unimportant which person wins
or loses. That is hardly a proper, and often rather an unworthy, way to look at the outcome and
it makes it moreover more difficult to find out what is right and necessary. In the calm of the
Christmas season we should lift our view from the turmoils close by and look out to farther and
larger horizons.

We should listen to the voice of other nations many of whom have returned to a friendly at-
titude towards Germany during the past year. They have watched closely what has been: going
on in our country. Sometimes their position is detached and objective enough for useful sugges-
tions from their part. In everything we hear from our friends in the Free World we can discern
above all this point of theirs: we have the same ideals as you do, and our interests are similar to
yours. We have to get together if we want to remain free. We want to trust you. Help.us by
showing clear will and firm determination on your part.

Om MORE THING we ought to think about at the close of this year. It seems as if the sever-
ity and bitterness of the controversy, in which the Government and the Coalition fought
their cause with such passionate zeal, might awaken in us the feeling that we ought to realize
more what we have in common and what ties us together. Perhaps the recent events will result
in bringing out once more and still clearer that our basic ideas of unity and right and liberty
are the same.

At any rate, our still young state is proving capable to support the load and strain of its
present troubles. It must emerge stronger from this trial. If that comes true, we want to go on
and consolidate what we have attained, and what world opinion calls the German Miracle. There-
fore, our major objective is to bring to a conclusion the work we have started upon: re-estab-
lishment of German self-determination and integration of all Germany into the community of
the free nations. Our motives are simple and strong: we want prosperity, liberty and security
for all Germany, and moreover for Europe and the World. We want that everybody who is of
good will may find the Peace of which the Christmas Gospel speaks.

S000

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 JANUARY 1953

--- Page 6 ---
New Year’s Message

By Samuel Reber

Acting US High Commissioner for Germany

I am happy to be here in Berlin today and to have this
opportunity at the end of the old year to wish the
people of Berlin and the people of the Soviet Zone a
better and happier New Year. In doing so, I am not only
following a tradition but also am giving expression to an
impelling personal feeling.

With millions of other people in the free world, I have
watched with admiration the determined struggle of the
Berliners to defend their liberties and resist the harass-
ments of the dictatorship surrounding them. And we
have aided them in their battle. We have seen the in-
finitely more difficult resistance of the population of the
Soviet Zone to the encroachments of Communism on
their daily life, and their efforts to retain personal and
moral integrity in the face of all the pressures a total-
itarian state can bring to bear. And the free world has
sustained them in their struggle, with the weapons of
the spirit, first and foremost through the dissemination
of truth — truth about the outside world and truth
about developments in the Soviet Zone itself, which the
Communist regime attempts to hide and dissemble.

HE EXPERIENCE and the example of these people

living on the frontiers of a world that is not free
have vividly recalled to us that liberty is not something
which should be taken as a matter of course.

I know that it is difficult to give consolation to people
caught up in the daily struggle against a monolithic
state apparatus directed to quenching their spirit and
infusing their minds with false values. But the farmers,
the workers, the women and the youth of the Soviet
Zone who hold fast to their personal integrity, and keep
alive their faith in liberty, are contributing their share
to the strengthening of freedom everywhere.

The faith in the free way of life shown here in Ber-
lin and just as persistently by the population of the
Soviet Zone is heartening to the people of the free
world, and furthers our conviction that personal liberty
is a thing so valuable that it must be defended with all
our strength. This is the basis of the Western defense
effort, and the moving idea behind European integra-
tion and the development of the Atlantic community.

In all these vitally important enterprises of the free
world, despite certain setbacks, substantial progress has
been made during the past year in the economic, military

This message was delivered by Mr. Reber on New
Year’s Eve over RIAS, the US-sponsored radio sta-
tion in the American Sector of Berlin. It was deliv-
ered in German to the German people.

JANUARY 1953

and political fields. In NATO, in the coal and steel com-
munity, in the Marshall Plan, in the European Pay-
ments Union, in the European Council, the foundations
for the future structure of a strong, viable, united free
world have been laid. When it has been finally ratified,
the European Defense Community will form an im-
portant addition.

HESE DEVELOPMENTS are reflected in the feeling

of increased security experienced in Western coun-
tries as against a year ago. Aggression has already be-
come too costly for would-be aggressors to begin lightly.
On the economic side, the economic upswing of the
Federal Republic has continued, with production reach-
ing 167 percent of 1936 during the month of November.
Unemployment is down, and employment at a record
high. In a sense all this represents the first fruits of
cooperation in common ends, and points the way to the
advantages to be gained from full European integration.

In Berlin—in free Berlin—progress toward a better
life has been made during the past year. I do not mean
to say that I think life in Berlfn has become normal—
far from it. Harassments by the Soviets and by the
Communist government of the Soviet Zone have con-
tinued in intensity and viciousness. The flood of refugees
from the Soviet Zone has increased and places a heavy
burden upon the resources of free Berlin. The line of
barbed wire and road blocks shutting off the West Ber-
liners from their countrymen and their property in the
Soviet Zone has been drawn tighter. Unwarranted and

illegal interference with trade and _ transportation
between Berlin and the Federal Republic has taken
place.

Attempts have been made to intimidate Berlin by acts
of terror-staged demonstrations on the sector border,
kidnapings, such as the brutal seizure of Dr. Linse in
West Berlin. Here let me pause a moment and ask the
question why with all the detailed information which
we have made available to them the authorities in the
Soviet Zone still disclaim knowledge of his whereabouts
and continue to deny him freedom. Even a few days
ago armed assault by Soviet soldiers resulted in the
tragic death of a West Berlin policeman. The futility of
these attempts to sap the courage of Berliners has been
demonstrated.

ESPITE THESE difficulties which block the return
of West Berlin to a completely normal existence its
economic conditions are steadily improving. Construction
mounted substantially during the past year and 10,300
new dwelling units were completed for occupancy in
West Berlin. Berlin export trade continues to grow and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
“Made in Berlin” is becoming a well-known trademark
abroad. Although unemployment still exists and is
swelled by refugees, production continues to rise. I know
that it is small comfort to persons out of work to cite
these facts, but I also know that even those unemployed
infinitely prefer life in West Berlin to the dread totali-
tarianism that begins at its borders.

I am confident that in the year 1953 the free nations
of the world will continue to support the cause of free-

dom in Berlin as elsewhere, to strengthen their defenses
and to press for peaceful solutions of the problems that
face the world, including those of Berlin. Let us combine
our strength and wisdom and bring to bear the full
power of our resources to preserve the common welfare
and peace of the world. This is the New Year’s wish I
leave with you. Let each of us do his part to insure the
fulfillment of the eternal Christmas message “Peace on
Earth, Good Will to Men.” +END

Oldest Foreign Service Local Employee Dies

Mrs. Ida Hafermann, local employee of the Hamburg
Consulate General with the longest term of service in
the annals of the American Foreign Service, died Dec. 5
at her home in Hamburg at the age of 80 years. Her
death came less then four weeks before her retirement
with nearly 54 years of employment of the United States
Government in Germany.

Mrs. Hafermann had been a regular employee of the
American Consulate General in Hamburg since April 18,
1898. During World War I, she served in the American
interests section of the Spanish Mission, the protecting
power for US interests. Similarly during World War II,

Mrs. Hafermann (center) with Mr. McCloy at the cer-
emony in Frankfurt December 1949 for presentation of

Foreign Service awards. (PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

she was employed by the Swiss Government as the pro-
tecting power for American interests.

Mrs. Hafermann had submitted July 22 her resignation
from the Foreign Service “due to my advanced age” to
become effective at the end of the year. She was hon-
ored in Frankfurt Dec. 7, 1949 at a ceremony when John
J. McCloy, then US high commissioner, presented certif-
icates and medals for long and meritorious service to
officers and employees of the Foreign Service in Ger-
many.

Secretary of State Dean Acheson, in a message of con-
dolences to Miss Ida Spiro of Hamburg, niece of the
deceased US Government employee, said:

“I have learned with much regret of the death in
Hamburg on December 5, three weeks before her sched-
uled retirement at the age of 80, of Mrs. Ida Hafermann,
a German citizen, after 54 years of conscientious and
selfless service with our Consulate General there, most
recently as clerk in charge of consular invoices where
she became well and affectionately known to German
and American business men. Mrs. Hafermann’s cheerful-
ness, loyalty and devotion to duty were exemplary. Dur-
ing two world wars she rendered valuable service to the
United States as an employee of the foreign powers pro-
tecting our interests in Germany. I join the Foreign
Service in mourning the loss of the valued and loyal
employee and extend my deep sympathy to her rel-
atives.”

Walter J. Donnelly, as US high commissioner for Ger-
many at the time of Mrs. Hafermann’s death, also sent
his condolences to Miss Spiro, saying:

“I have been informed of the sudden death of your
Aunt, Mrs. Ida Hafermann, and wish to express my
deepest condolences to you. Your aunt has served al-
most 54 years with the American Consulate General.
This service is unparalleled in the annals of the Amer-
ican Foreign Service. Her service was devoted and self-
less and she was known to all in the consulate and the
community for her cheerfulness and devotion to duty.
She rendered valuable service to the United States in
both world wars when she served with the mission of
the foreign powers representing United States’ interests
in Germany. I wish to join the American Consulate
General in Hamburg and the entire American Foreign
Service in mourning the loss of Mrs. Hafermann.”

JANUARY 1953

--- Page 8 ---
SS United States

At Bremerhaven

HE UNITED States Line’s new passenger liner

United States welcomed into Bremerhaven
Jan. 3 at a ceremony marking the first call of the trans-
atlantic record-holder to a German port. Heading the of-
ficial party greeting the officers, crew and passengers to
the North German port were Samuel Reber, acting US
high commissioner for Germany; Dr. Hans-Christoph
Seebohm, federal minister of transportation, and Wil-
helm Kaisen, president of the Bremen Senate. Following
addresses by Mr. Reber and Dr. Seebohm (printed be-
low) and brief greetings by Mr. Kaisen, the officials in-
spected the liner which will continue to call regularly
during the next few months at Bremen. Shown in the
photograph were (left to right) Mr. Reber, Dr. Seebohm
and Mr. Kaisen on the flag deck of the SS United States.

was

* *
*

Translation of Address

By Dr. Christoph Seebohm

Federal Minister of Transportation

I AM SINCERELY glad to welcome this proud ship on

its first visit in a German port. I extend greetings also
to all of those assembled here for the occasion. For my-
self, and also in the name of the president of the Fed-
eral Republic and of the Federal Government I return
their friendly words and wishes.

The entire German nation is greatly interested in this
festive event which is taking place today on board of
the world-famous flag-ship of the United States Lines
now lying in this North Sea port. For, everything which
shows evidence of our cooperation with the United
States finds a strong and happy echo in our country.
We consider it a good and happy sign that we can start
this new year with a welcoming greeting for the largest
and fastest ship of the American merchant marine which
has come to Bremerhaven for the first time. Let us take
this event as a symbol for the successful and fruitful
cooperation between us and the United States, and es-
pecially between the merchant marines of the two coun-
tries.

We realize that the free world is in the same boat for
better or for worse, and we know how important it is
for us to live in stable friendship with all nations which
carry and guard Western civilization. However, cultiva-
tion of the common elements of Western thought alone
is not sufficient. We also need practical-minded men

Continued on page 18

JANUARY 1953

Touring the SS United States during welcoming (left to
right), Acting U.S. High Commissioner Samuel Reber,
Bremen Senate President Wilhelm Kaisen, and Federal

Traffic and Transportation Minister Hans-Christoph
Seebohm.

Address
By Samuel Reber

Acting US High Commissioner

URING THE first days of a new year and on the

occasion of the first arrival of the liner United
States, the newest ship of the US Merchant Marine, in
the newly rebuilt port of Bremerhaven, I should per-
haps speak exclusively of new things. But new things
must be set against a background of old, which in this
case is the long commercial relationship between the
United States and the Free Port of Bremen.

I have before me a transcript of a document, signed
by George Washington, dated 1794, appointing as United
States Consul one Arnold Delius of Bremen. The Pres-
ident said: “I have nominated and by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate do appoint him consul
of the United States of America for the Port of Bremen.”

With these words began the formal relationship be-
tween Bremen and the United States.

Despite its ancient traditions and close links with the
older maritime nations, Bremen, then as now devoted
to the principles of free trade, demonstrated its youth-
ful capacity for growth and its youthful capacity to
accept new ideas and trade associations which quickly
led to the establishment of its active commerce between
its ancient port and the new republic of the West.

By 1830 Bremen was the most important world market
for American tobacco, twenty years later it also became
the principal continental market for American cotton.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
In 1874 a Cotton Exchange was founded in Bremen and
this exchange became the focal point for the distribu-
tion of American cotton marketed in Europe. Bremen’s
role in the marketing of US cotton, tobacco and other
commodities, which dates from this period, has con-
tinued to the present day. As of September 1951, the
exports from Bremen to the United States were twice
as large as those to any other country and the imports
from the United States through the port of Bremen are
currently DM 875,000,000 (equivalent to $208,250,000).

HAT I HAVE tried to indicate in these passing ref-

erences to the trade relations between the United
States and the Free Port of Bremen is that a firm com-
mercial link exists between this city and our country. A
full exposition of this common market will be shown in
an exhibition to open in our America House here next
week, which I hope you may all have an opportunity to
visit.

Ib one more historical reference to make. The
arri: the packet George Washington in Bremen in
1847 . xed the first occasion when a ship of what is

now the United States Line arrived at the port of
Bremen. It is a miracle to us today that the sail and
steam vessels of the 19th century could make the
Atlantic crossing and arrive in this port in 17 days; yet
we take it for granted that modern ships, like the
United States, can make the same voyage in less than
seven days.

It is with pride that I speak to you in the dining
saloon of this great ship, the finest ocean liner that the
United States has ever built. We are proud that the
United States now holds the record for the fastest
transatlantic crossing, and I believe that its arrival in
Bremen on its first voyage here gives further evidence
of the developing Bremen-American and hence of Ger-
man-American trade relations.

As you know, the United States has, as have other
American vessels coming to this port, brought the fam-
ilies of many American soldiers stationed in Germany.
These men and their families are here today not so
much because of events in the past or because of any
belligerent designs for the future, but because my
country and its partners in the Atlantic community
recognize the urgent need to reinforce the defenses of
western Europe including those of Germany. These
men have come not as part of an army dominating
foreign territory but as members of a defense force
needed to maintain a strong position in the face of the
Communist might in the East and to preserve the peace.
That is their role and as citizen soldiers of a democratic
community they recognize their mission and understand
why they are here.

IHIRTEEN MONTHS ago, when High Commissioner
John J. McCloy addressed the National Defense
Transportation Association in Bremerhaven*, he spoke

*see “Defense of Common Freedom” in Information Bulletin,
November 1951.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

with optimism of the understanding of the nations of
Europe as to the role they must play as a defensive
union to preserve the freedom of the nations of the
West.

The signatures in Bonn and in Paris last May of the
Contractual Agreements and of the Treaty establishing
the EDC, as did the establishment of the Coal and Steel
Community somewhat earlier, marked further mile-
stones in the achievement of an integrated European
community, itself part of a developing Atlantic com-
munity. In the association of free peoples Germany is
to be a partner accepting its full share of responsibilities
as well as all the benefits which such membership
entails. Only through the consolidation and development
of such a community of free democratic peoples, strong
enough to resist any totalitarian menace from whatever
source it may come, can the firm basis of a lasting peace
be laid and assurances for a developing prosperity and
economic security be given.

The President-elect of the United States has said in
his New Year’s message, as the divided strength of the
western and continental Europe nations becomes com-
bined, “its effectiveness will be multiplied so that
western Europe will have a vigorous community for
peace and freedom.” He added that his ideas on this
subject had been reinforced as more and more he saw
the “Feebleness of alternatives.”

I can only say at this moment, when we are commem-
orating the continued development of trade relations
under peaceful conditions, and when we take cognizance
of the enormous economic recovery of Germany in the
brief span of years since the close of the Second World
War, that progress toward the achievement of this goal
has not been as rapid as my government and its people
would have preferred to see and that these continued
delays, understandable though they may be, can be
detrimental if unduly prolonged.

My associates and I in the High Commission for Ger-
many, who have worked so many months to see that
the benefits of the new German sovereignty treaties
may be realized as soon as possible, believe that the
treaties will be approved by all other signatories as
have the Bonn Agreements by the United States and
Great Britain. We are also confident that the approval
thereof will represent more than approval in the letter
only and that their entry into force will herald a new
day for peace.

In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity
to congratulate the United States Lines on having forged
another link of understanding between the United
States and the Federal Republic of Germany. In bring-
ing their greatest ship here they have paid the port of
Bremen a compliment that it richly deserves and I
trust that it is a foretaste of ever-increasing relations
in all fields of human endeavor between Bremen as @
great port of the Federal Republic of Germany and the
United States. +END

JANUARY 1953

--- Page 10 ---
Kspelkamp -”Operation Pioneer”

By Wilbert B. Dubin

Press Officer, American Consulate General, Duesseldorf

NLY SEVEN years ago millions of cartridges,

grenades and bombs had been stored in a pine
forest in Westphalia of western Germany, where today
German refugees from eastern Europe look back on the
first phase of a real pioneer resettlement undertaking.
On the grounds of a former ammunition depot of the
German army a community of approximately 3,000 has
mushroomed up since 1946. “Operation Pioneer” offers
a singular opportunity for expellees and refugees to
build a new life and regain the self-respect that the
Communists would destroy.

In 1946, when the ammunition depot Espelkamp-
Mitwald, 25 miles northeast of Osnabrueck, was sched-
uled for destruction, a study group of the Relief Or-
ganization of the Evangelical Church under the direction
of the Swedish Pastor Birger Forrell intervened with
British authorities to have the project and its undama-
ged buildings spared in order to house German refugees.
The dynamiting was temporarily halted and the first
settlers moved into the sheds and bunkers of the depot.

LTHOUGH IT was uncertain at that time whether
the dynamiting would be continued, the area at-
tracted refugees in increasing numbers. American Men-
nonites were the first to bring actual assistance to the

(left) View of one of the destroyed bunkers of the ammunition dump before the refugee settlement project got under

way. (right) View in the same area after some of the new apartment houses had been constructed. (photos furnished
by Information Office, Amercian Consulate General, Duesseldorf)

JANUARY 1953 7

settlers from outside of Germany. Tall men with wide-
brimmed hats came into the thick-set forest region to
live with the disillusioned refugees, mending and re-
modeling with their own hands the shacks that provided
shelter, felling trees and clearing underbrush to provide
fields so that potatoes and vegetables could be grown.
This presence of the American Mennonites at Espel-
kamp combined with the sympathetic understanding of
the state officials had at the same time a stabilizing
effect on the early settlers, many of whom were deeply
depressed by their seemingly endless flight through
Europe.

In 1948 General W.H.A. Bishop, then British state
commissioner of North Rhine-Westphalia, released the
area of the Espelkamp depot to the German authorities.
So encouraged, the Relief Organization of the Evangel-
ical Church initiated a survey of the economic and
traffic conditions of the Espelkamp area to see whether
it would be suitable for the establishment of a large-
scale refugee community.

HE FINDINGS of this survey prompted the Evangel-
ical Church and the German state to join in a com-
mon enterprise for the first time in Germany since 1918.
A planning and administrative corporation, known as
the “Aufbaugemeinschaft Espelkamp,” was founded to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Refugee woman working in textile mill, one of the new
industries started in the Espelkamp area.

plan and erect at Espelkamp a town which could harbor
a large number of refugees and expellees. These people
would be living by their crafts and whatever larger-
scale industry could be settled in this area. The Church
and the German state hold equal shares in this corpora-
tion.

The treks of refugees to Espelkamp then were or-
ganized by the corporation. The only persons who would
be admitted were those who could be employed by the
various industries settling in Espelkamp or else were
persons who knew a craft useful for the community.
Manufacturers of rubber and steel products and fur-
niture, evicted from East Germany, reestablished them-
selves in the town; others were asked to move to Espel-
kamp from nearby areas in order to create an industrial
center which could provide work for some 15,000 ref-
ugees scheduled to be settled in the town within the
next few years.

However, only part of the program has been realized
so far and yet Espelkamp in only one year has grown
from 1,200 inhabitants to 3,000 or more today.

HE BIG headache of Espelkamp has been the financ-

ing of the building program. As a rule the construc-
tion is subsidized from the refugee funds of the German
government. These funds, however, were not enough to
fill all needs. Recently the United States financed the
erection of two large housing projects from ECA and
HICOG funds. Other European countries, including
Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands, also contributed
to the construction.

Building material came roughly cut from the sur-
rounding forest. Concrete quarried from the dynamited
bunkers and pillboxes of the former ammunition depot
serves as foundations for the streets. The ammunition

INFORMATION BULLETIN

sheds and halls today house the industrial works with
newly erected halls apparently following the construc-
tion pattern of the old ones. Most firms, when moving
into an old shed, set up their machines and start to
work long before even the most primitive repairs have
been made to the floors, ceilings and windows.

The town of Espelkamp is growing fast and soon the
responsibilitiy for electing a community council, a
mayor and county representatives will be placed in the
hands of the people. There are already men and women
in Espelkamp who realize the responsibility of local
government and it will be very likely that they will
activate the interest of the refugee in his community
and teach him to utilize democratic self-government
apparatus on a local level.

Te YOUTH present the most pressing problem of
Espelkamp today. When the German residents in
Poland, Latvia, Hungary and Yugoslavia were evicted
in 1945, many children were mostly separated from their
parents and put in internment camps where the Com-
munists in most cases either tried to indoctrinate them
or consigned them to land labor. Many of these youth
were shipped to Germany after a few years and others
escaped to the West on their own. They ended up in
refugee camps in West Germany or made an obscure
living in the big cities for some time. A great number
of these young people are presently gathered:in an
institution at Espelkamp named “Steilhof” (named after
a German welfare worker). This is a social welfare in-
stitution operated by the Evangelical Church and sub-
sidized by the German state.

Here the refugee youth, mostly orphans, are separated
by age groups and at first receive schooling in the Ger-
man language. Their chief problem, however, is to get
professional training so that they can become useful
miembers of the community.

The past of many of these boys and girls is packed
with heartrending stories and one boy casually depicted
his with the understatement: “It was not easy to come
to my parents. It took me two years.” He had been
interned by the Polish police and then escaped. He was
caught in East Germany by the Soviet Zone police who
sent him back to Poland. His guards there beat him
unconscious when he arrived and put him to work in
the coal mines. Again he escaped and managed to cross
into East Germany; this time he passed himself off as
a Pole. After months he located his parent’s where-
abouts. His father had died in the meantime and his
mother lived in southern Germany but he was unable
to join her. He came to Espelkamp on his 15th birthday.
He likes it here.

H™™= AT Espelkamp the Steilhof Institution plans
to build a trade school where the young refugees
will receive professional training in crafts which are
desirable for the Espelkamp industries.

The area, and the Steilhof in particular, is a good
example of the interest the free world takes in the

JANUARY 1953

--- Page 12 ---
problems of one of its members. Thus one of the homes
for refugee juveniles was erected recently through a
donation from the HICOG fund, the costs for other
buildings have been contributed by the Lutheran
Churches of Norway, Sweden and the Netherlands. A
young Dutch pastor has been assigned to the youth camp
of the Steilhof by the Dutch Evangelical Church. He
and his charming wife have already established a close
personal contact with the youths, helping them with
their individual problems and increasingly receiving the
confidence of even the most suspicious youngsters.

Espelkamp is pioneer country in more than one re-
spect. The town is still quite primitive and there is no
entertainment to speak of for either young or old. There
is a sporting field on the grounds of the Steilhof and in
the neighborhood a swimming pool is being built but
that will be hardly enough to satisfy the hungry minds
of the refugee settlers and the younger group. The
nearest town with a motion picture theater is some
12 miles away and a visit of a traveling movie to Espel-
kamp has become a major social event.

IHEREFORE, the Film Section of the American Con-
sulate General at Duesseldorf recently lent a film
projector and equipment to the Steilhof Institution. This

ona is
FORDERUNG DURCH Od
SIAATEN
ERIKA

Young refugee, carrying pail of food, stops to read sign
on new building, saying: “Thanks to assistance of the
United States of America and German state offices,
erected October 1951.”

JANUARY 1953

equipment presents entertaining and informational films
to the refugees and to the youth in particular. Informal
discussions after these films combined with a wide
variety of pamphlet literature encourage the people to
express their opinion freely, thereby strengthening
their self assurance and preparing them for active
participation in discussions of civic matters of their own
community.

One of the main problems has been largely overcome:
not to have the Espelkamp project end up as a refugee
camp but to make it an integral part of western Ger-
many and North Rhine-Westphalia, where it may well
become an important economic and social factor.

A woman teacher at the Steilhof states: “These ref-
ugees could be the pride of any nation in the world.
They are industrious, enterprising and talented in many
ways. But they are disillusioned by their past expe-
riences. The efforts of the West to help them build a
new future must not fail to seize the refugees’ imagina~
tion by getting the fact through to them that they are
being received in a free world in a new home.” Opera-
tion Pioneer has pointed the way. +END

Carl Schurz Exhibition

An exhibition, commemorating the life and work of
Carl Schurz was presented in October at the Bremen
America House under sponsorship of the Carl Schurz
Society of Bremen.

Attending the opening ceremony on United Nations
Day Oct. 24 were members of the Carl Schurz Society,
the Bremen Consular Corps, the Bremen Senate, as well
as Michael Harris, chief of the MSA Special Mission to
Germany, and Dr. Peter Mueller, chairman of the
Steuben-Schurz Society of Frankfurt.

The ceremony was opened by Consul General Edward
D. McLaughlin who remarked that every effort of Carl
Schurz was directed on a_ binational scale toward those
basic humanitarian goals which seven years ago were
underwritten on an international scale by 50 nations in
the United Nations Charter with the aim to secure free-
dom of mankind to live in peace under a clean and hon-
est government dedicated to affording equal opportun-
ities for its citizenry. After reviewing a few of the inter-~
national accomplishments during the past, such as the
activities of the International Refugee Organization, The
United Nations Commission for Prisoners of War, The
United Nations Commission for Human Rights and the
Ford Foundation, and noting that these activities would
have received Schurz’ hearty endorsement, Mr. Mc-
Laughlin expressed the hope that the exhibition may
serve not only to cement good relations between Carl
Schurz’ homeland and his adopted country but also show
men of good will that the desired world order can be at-
tained through cooperative effort.

Dr. Hermann Apelt, president of the Carl-Schurz Soci-
ety described the conditions prevailing in Germany and
the United States at the time of Carl Schurz’ emigration.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Berlin Regaining Tourist Status

ERLIN IS regaining its prewar stature as a world-

famous tourist mecca, according to a HICOG report
which points out that the Western sectors have taken
over the city’s “historic role as a hospitable center for
the trading and sightseeing traveler.”

Evidence of Berlin’s resurgence as a competitor on
equal terms with other cities of Europe, according to
the report prepared by the Economics Affairs Division,
Berlin Element, HICOG, is to be found in part in the
statistics on tourism to Berlin for the past year: of 1952.

These figures indicate that the number of travelers
reaching West Berlin in the first nine months of 1952
was 49 percent higher than the total for a comparable
span of 1950. By the end of September, 1952, more
tourists had arrived in Berlin than in any single full
year since the war.

Nearly $23,000 persons, both German and foreign,
came to Berlin before the end of September. The total
for the first nine months of 1950 was 616,249. In all of
1951, Berlin received 837,080 visitors.

N PART, the Economic Affairs Division report. said,

the steady rise in tourism to Berlin is also to be at-
tributed to improved transportation arrangements. Three
civil airlines “provide frequent luxury airline service to
Berlin” so that “the city can be reached just as com-
fortably and safely by air as any other city in western
Germany or western Europe.”

Foreign passengers flying to Berlin need no papers
other than those necessary for entry into western Ger-

many.

The city’s position 100 miles behind the Iron Curtain
in eastern Germany — while it deters a few visitors
from visiting Berlin — attracts a far greater number

who are desirous of seeing at first hand the con-
trasts between the Eastern Communist and the West-
ern democratic ways of life.

“Berlin is eager and able to attract the world tourist
and again offers first-class hotels, restaurants, theaters,
operas, good music and the usual amusements of a large
city,” the report notes, adding that at the same time “the
traveler finds in Berlin one of the few areas behind the
Iron Curtain in which he can see the effects of Soviet
domination.”

THER: POINTS that the Economic Affairs Division
report makes include the following:

Despite West Berlin’s geographical isolation from the
rest of the free West, “living conditions are...normal.
Nothing is rationed and intersector movement may be
undertaken without restriction.”

Sightseeing in the Soviet sector may be “undertaken
without special permission and normally without under-
going any personal risk. Conducted tours include the So-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

viet-occupied sector of the city and are...the easiest
method of visiting” this small area behind the Iron
Curtain.

The number of beds available in West Berlin hotels
has increased from 800 at the end of World War II to a
present total of more than 6,000, and “hotels range from
the luxury class to less expensive but comfortable
boarding houses or pensions.” West Berlin has approx-
imately 450 hotels and boarding houses, many of them
comparable to the best in Europe, and about 4,000 re-
staurants, cafes and night-clubs.

Berlin “always famous for its foods,” offers restau-
rants “for all tastes which not only uphold the gastron-
omic traditions of many of the countries of Europe, but
serve oriental and other exotic foods in many specialty
houses. Prices are...reasonable in hotels, restaurants
and night-clubs.”

“Direct. air service or simultaneous connections” are
offered between Berlin and all the principal capitals
and cities of Europe, while to assist West Berliners and
travelers from the Federal Republic and to provide in-
directly an additional incentive to foreign travelers ef-
forts are being made to improve air service and reduce
fares.”

A STEADY development of air travel has taken place
— 87,094 passengers came to Berlin in 1950, 142,354
in 1951 and 143,369 in the first nine months of 1952.

International and interzonal modern trailer bus serv-
ices maintain regular schedules between Berlin and the
most important cities in western Germany. International
lines connect with the principal cities of Europe. Many
of the luxurious international bus lines employ modern
trailer buses equipped with reclining seats and built-in
restrooms, include stewardess service and serve meals
on the bus.”

The difficulties for foreign visitors contemplating sur-
face travel. to Berlin sometimes make trips by train or
automobile impractical. For passage through the Soviet
Zone of occupation, the only means of reaching Berlin
by land, a special Soviet transit permit is necessary. The
permit may be applied for at Soviet consulates in the
US and other countries, but delays in granting the doc-
uments are the rule.

The development of travel and tourist. facilities has
been aided by funds from private sources, by MSA
counterpart funds and by German government support,
the EAD report states. In addition, the promotion of
tourism has been taken over by an official branch of the
Berlin city government known as the “Verkehrsamt
Berlin.” The Verkehrsamt has branches in New York
and Paris, and works in close collaboration with the
Federal Central Tourist office in Frankfurt. The latter
has branches in nine West European countries.

JANUARY 1963

--- Page 14 ---
HICOG Improves its German

‘By Friedrich Forstmeier
Assistant Chief, Training Staff, Personnel Division, Office of Executive Director, HICOG

A VISITOR passing through the second floor of Wing V
at HICOG Headquarters in Mehlem may be struck
by the monotonous babble of voices led by a single voice,
the whole sounding like the strange prayers of a remote
religious sect. But a step nearer to read the signs on the
doors would clarify those curious sounds at once: behind
these doors students of the HICOG German language
courses are having their German lessons.

Knowledge of another people’s language greatly en-
hances a Foreign Service officer’s understanding of that
people’s way of life, its history, cultural institutions and
political philosophy. In addition it enables the officer to
find the right psychological approach in dealing with its
citizens and discussing the problems they may bring
before him. A prominent United States ambassador, in
a recent article, urged his countrymen serving as Foreign
Service officers abroad “to make an effort to see the
country of their assignment and to understand it, and
to at least try seriously to learn the language of the
people...”

GREAT number of HICOG officers and employees

have been aware of the important role the language
factor plays in both their daily work and their contacts
with German nationals. During the past two years a
monthly average of 600 students participated in the
Spoken German program. Even now, after the consid-
erable organizational reduction of HICOG, there are still
about 400 students attending classes daily. Since the
inauguration of the program, Glenn Wolfe, HICOG exec-
utive director, has placed his signature more than 200
times under a “Certificate of Training,” awarded to the
students who had successfully completed the thirty units
of the Spcken German Course.

Despite a heavy daily schedule, conferences, recep-
tions, and a countless number of other duties, office
directors, attachés, division chiefs and many more high-
ranking officers of HICOG make every effort to take
the maximum of their monthly assignment of classes.
Seventeen German language classes, embracing up to
10 students per class, meet at the Mehlem headquarters
daily to practice Spoken German.

HICOG wives who were given permission to join
these study groups have included some of the most eager
students of the courses. In addition, instruction in the
German language is being furnished at about 30 Foreign
Service posts in the Federal Republic, including the US
Element Berlin, and the US consulates with their af-
filiated offices. A staff of carefully selected German
language instructors conducts these lessons.

ICOG’s German language instructors do not admit
that there are “hopeless cases” among their stu-
dents. Learning a language is primarily not a matter

JANUARY 1953

of intelligence. Even people with a brilliant intellect face
extreme difficulties when it comes to learning a foreign
idiom. But as one has been able to master his mother
tongue he possess the inherent ability to learn a lan-
guage and patience will work miracles.

In the beginning of the language program a number
of students would have been normally listed as “hopeless
cases.” Those, however, who did not waver in their ef-
forts and determinedly pursued their studies, have fi-
nally achieved sufficient fluency to deal successfully
with any situation which calls for the application of
their German. They are far beyond the Wo ist der Bahn-
hof level.

The instruction method has been developed by the
Foreign Service Institute in Washington, D.C. Linguistic
experts of the Institute’s School of Language and Lin-
gistics, for example Dr. Moulton, Dr. Echols and Dr.
Frauchiger, trained the first instructors and started the
program in March 1950.*

HE METHODICAL principles of teaching which they

recommended deviate considerably from the tradi-
tional pattern. It should be kept in mind that it is not
the aim of our courses to prepare a student for a schol-
arly career, but only to enable him to talk to the natives
of this country on matters of everyday life and current
issues of public interest. Hence, the be-all and end-all
of instruction is conversational German.

The student is required to talk German right from the
start. He is not supposed to absorb long involved state-
ments on grammar, he is expected “to learn the language
and not about the language” as Dr. Echols phrased it in
his “Instructions for the HICOG German Language Pro-
gram.” Grammar cannot be completely brushed aside,
of course, but the principle is that one thoroughly learns
parts of the language, until he has “gotten the feel,”
before he tackles the essential grammar of these parts.

The textbooks, generally referred to as the “Spoken
German” books, were composed by Dr. William G.
Moulton and his wife Mrs. Jenny Karding Moulton. They
contain 30 units, each one built around a subject of
everyday life: sightseeing in a German town, meeting
people, going shopping, seeing a doctor—to mention only
a few topics. These books, written in 1944, are still the
backbone of the whole program and have found wide
appreciation with both students and teachers. Some
chapters reflect the need for a 1944 wartime vocabulary,
it is true, but the bulk of words and phrases are those
you will need any moment if you want to make your-
self understood in the German community.

*See Dr. Moulton’s article “HICOG Learns German” in In-
formation Bulletin October 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
How long does a course take?

Normally 10 hours of study are devoted to one unit
of the book. The total course requires 300 class sessions,
or regular instruction for a period of 60 weeks. A two-
year assignment in Germany offers plenty of time to
complete the course. Nor is one handicapped by being
transfered to another post within Germany, since he
may continue his studies there. It is good to remember
that failure or success of his efforts depends on his

energy and diligence, and, most important, on his regular
attendance in class.

Learning a language has been boring to many in school
or college days. Maybe something was wrong with the
teaching system. Here one has a different system. And
though it is not said that learning German is just fun in
HICOG’s courses, we have had a stimulating experience:
we have not met a single student as yet who did not
seem to enjoy himself thoroughly in class. +END

Baptistry Presented Plittersdorf Church

As a token of appreciation for the generosity of the
local parishioners in sharing their edifice of worship,
the American Catholic Parish of the Bonn area has
presented a baptistry to the parish church of St. Ever-
glisius in the Plittersdorf suburb of Bad Godesberg.

The baptistry, a small chapel lighted by three stained-
glass windows, contains a baptismal fount in the center
and an altar in a niche at the side. A small tablet bears
the inscription: “American Catholics built this baptistry
as a token of Christian gratitude.”

In a story entitled “A Gift from American Catholics,”
the Bonn newspaper Bonner Rundschau published the

View of new chapel showing baptismal fount, altar and
two windows. (photo by PLB ID HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

following description (translated from German):

“The baptismal fount in the center of the chapel was
hewn from a trachyte block. The lid of embossed brass
is ornamented with symbols from the Book of Revela-
tion. Light enters the chapel through three windows of
bright pastel colors, arranged in a natural and practical
manner.

“The windows were made by the glass-painter Geitel
of Bochum, and their elaborate symbols refer to the
ritual of baptism. The right window shows Jonah the
prophet being ejected from the fish and Moses receiving
the Tablets in the splendor of the Trinity. In the left
window, John the Baptist points toward Christ sym-
bolized as the Lamb of God while the Holy Spirit hovers
overhead.

“The niche in the baptistry is lighted through a win-
dow with a representation of the crucifixion scene. In
the niche ig an altar, under which can be seen the
baptismal utensils. On the altar are a crucifix by the
sculptor Berges of Mehlem and two candlesticks. The
forged-iron gate for the chapel has not been completed.
Also a memorial for the war dead is still to be added.”

American Catholics living in the Bonn area—mostly
employees of the Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany, their families and representatives of com-
mercial firms having business in the federal capital—
formed the parish in late 1951. The group, which is the
only American civilian parish in Germany, is respon-
sible to the Archbishopic of Cologne.

Mons. Howard Smith, attached to the Papal Nunciate
in Bonn, served initially as pastor of the parish which
on Dec. 2, 1951 had its first mass in St. Everglisius
Church. In August, the Rev. John P. Dolan, an American
priest studying at Bonn University, became its pastor.
The local parish priests and German congregation of the
church have cooperated whole-heartedly in permitting
the Americans to hold regular services in the church,
even supplying choir and organist when the occasion
demanded.

As a token of thanks for the generosity of the local
parish in extending the use of these facilities, the Amer-
ican parish raised the funds for construction of the
baptistry which was dedicated in early December.

JANUARY 1953

--- Page 16 ---
Classrooms of Democracy

By Paul Phillips

Information Officer, Northern Hesse District, Kassel

ITZENHAUSEN County—one of the six Hessian

counties bordering on the Soviet Zone—has put
films of the United States Information Service (USIS)
to work in a way that has exceeded even the fondest
predictions of the German and American sponsors.

As in most rural German counties, it is the task of
the Adult Education Association of Witzenhausen to
bring to the many towns and villages of the county an
important part of the American cultural and educational
programs that reach these outlying communities. The
person primarily responsible for furthering the use of
the USIS films in Witzenhausen is Werner Grosskopf,
director of the county association.

In Witzenhausen County, under Mr. Grosskopf’s
leadership and with the cooperation of a sympathetic
state administrator, school superintendent and other
county officials, adult education has been creating cit-
izen interest with USIS films in matters that traditionally
have been left to the government official and profes-
sional politician.

OME WEEKS before the Hessian community elections
took place in May 1952, Mr. Grosskopf, who had long
been introducing subjects on civics into his adult ed-
ucation programs, decided that the coming elections
would provide the vehicle for devoting resources avail-
able to the Adult Education Association to educating
groups in the county about the political facts of every-
day life. Rather than attempt to attract large numbers
to meetings in the rural communities — an impossible
task in any event during the spring farm work — the
Association decided to work with small groups of from
20 to 40 persons in the 28 communities of the county
where the Adult Education Association had previously
established branch offices.

To these meetings were invited representatives from
the various groups in each community — farmers, work-
ers, small business people, representatives of youth and
other groups, and during the meetings matters that
every citizen should know in order to fulfill his role in a
democratic state were presented, discussed and il-
lustrated by means of films. Due in part to the late start
of the civic education program for the then-approaching
elections and in part to the realization that civic educa-
tion would be important for future elections as well as
those in May, the program was continued after the elec-
tions.

JANUARY 1953

EVERAL months ago this first concerted effort by the
Adult Education Association to promote a better un-
derstanding of the way democracy functions in 28 groups
throughout the county came to an end. Let’s take a look
at the program to see how it worked and how USIS
films contributed to its success.

The program lasted eight weeks and included six dif-
ferent courses on various phases of civic education.
Each of the 28 communities received the six training
courses during the eight-week period. Taking one of
these communities, Bad Sooden-Allendorf, only three
miles from the Soviet Zone, as an example, the program
worked as follows.

The first evening meeting was devoted to the topic
“The Democratic System.” A short talk was given by
either Mr. Grosskopf or a qualified alternate on the
responsibilities of the citizen in a democratic state, the
differences between a democratic and authoritarian
state, and the government of the Federal Republic of
Germany. This was followed by three film slide series
on the subjects “Basic Rights of the Citizen,” “The
Structure of the Federal Government” and “The Making
of a Law.”

Following this was the film “Democracy in Danger,”
which the Association had borrowed from the nearby
Eschwege America House. The subject of the film then
became the subject of discussion among the farmers,
local officials, workers and youth who were present. At
the end of this first seminar, a small pamphlet, “The In-
dividual and the State,” also obtained from the Amer-
ica House, was handed to each participant.

BOUT A week later the second course was presented

in Bad Sooden-Allendorf. The subject: “The Role of
the Community in the State.” At this meeting the USIS
film “A Town Helps Itself”? was shown and discussed
and the pamphlet “What is the Meaning of Self-Govern-
ment” was given out. The third program some days later
had as its theme “The Community Council” and again a
USIS film “German Youth Administer a Community”
was appropriate to the subject. And so the program
went until the sixth evening when the subject “The Cit-
izen and His Community” was discussed and the film
“Public Opinion” ended the group’s series of evening
meetings about their most cherished possession — dem-

ocracy.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
This same program was repeated in 27 other commun-
ities with groups of farmers, women, local officials and
youth.

The role that USIS films played in making these cour-
ses a popular success was pointed out by Mr. Grosskopf.
In the first place, he said, one picture was worth many
words. Secondly, the subjects covered by the films were
exactly those picked by. the Association as being most
valuable to stimulating the citizen’s interest in his gov-
ernment, both local and national. And thirdly, the films
were more effective in arousing fruitful discussion than
lectures on the same subjects.

HE USE of USIS films in Witzenhausen County has

not been limited to.the eight-week course which the
Adult Education Association carried out recently. For
the past several years, first under the sponsorship of the
US Resident Office, which was located in Witzenhausen,
and after January 1952 under the sponsorship of the As-
sociation, the USIS film program has been a daily
feature in the lives of the Witzenhausen population.
Thus, although the Resident Officer closed up shop
about one year ago, the film program has continued to
reach the schools, youth groups and adults in the county.

This same development has been repeated in 12 of the
17 counties in northern Hesse and in scores of the
counties throughout the entire US Zone of Germany.
More recently the USIS film program has been extended
into the British and French zones with such success that
film attendance figures in these areas of Germany ap-
proximate those in the US Zone.

Aside from the more immediate objective of preparing
village groups in Witzenhausen County to accept their
responsibilities as citizens during the community elec-
tions, the continuing purpose of the Adult Education
Assotiation’s program is to activate the groups that
participated in the courses to interest others in the com-
munity to take part in public affairs.

HE ASSOCIATION believes that the “classroom of

democracy” is to be found in the town hall meeting
of the villages and hopes that the persons who have
participated in the civics seminars during the past sev-
eral months will be the leaders in helping the village
mayors plan and carry out town hall meetings during
the winter months. Despite the fact that some mayors
do not look with favor upon citizen’s “meddling” in
local government and that tradition does not often
support the citizens in such efforts, there are signs that
the Association’s program has made headway.

The Association has found that many of the groups
were enthusiastic about the “lecture-film-discussion”
method of civics training and has therefore planned a
new series of courses for the winter. These courses

INFORMATION BULLETIN

cover subjects on purely local matters, such as “Our
Community and its School,” and also those concerned
with international affairs, such as “The Schuman Plan”
and “The United States of Europe.” For these and the
other subjects planned, Mr. Grosskopf is selecting from
among several hundred USIS films those that will con-
tribute to an understanding -of the topic under dis-
cussion.

In addition to employing USIS films in Witzenhau-
sen’s regular adult education program and civics train-
ing courses, the 40 youth forums in the county are
steady customers of the film program, integrating the
film evenings into their regular forum activities.

Mr. Grosskopf’s outstanding work in Witzenhausen’s
adult education program has not gone unnoticed. His
civics training course and use of USIS films was ex-
plained fully in a recent edition of the State of Hesse
Adult Education publication. Also the North Hesse
district government, which is located in Kassel and
performs a number of governmental functions for the
18 counties of North Hesse, recently distributed copies
of Witzenhausen’s civic training course to all the county
adult education associations in North Hesse.

HERE HAVE been many evidences of the effec-

tiveness of the USIS films msed in Witzenhausen’s
various programs. Perhaps one of the most concrete ex-
amples is that of a youth group in the county which
witnessed the film “German Youth Administer a Com-
munity.” The film told how boys and girls took over the
reigns of their government for several days to acquaint
themselves with local government problems. Several
days after the youth group saw the film the members
asked the local mayor to let them run their local gov-
ernment for a day. The mayor consented.

Another USIS film, “Man and the State,” is credited
by an organization leader with increasing attendance
at the organization’s meetings. The film tells the story
of an average citizen who never attends meetings, where
local problems are discussed but who always criticizes
the action taken during the meetings, pointing out that
every citizen has the opportunity to help improve his
government. There are many similar stories of how USIS
films have stimulated local action for the betterment of
the community.

In brief, this is the story of the USIS film at work in
one county of Germany today. In Witzenhausen, as in
many other German counties, an adult education or
youth program would be difficult without the help of
USIS films. It should be a source of satisfaction to the
American to know that he has contributed so much to
giving the men and women in Germany active in educa-
tional and youth work a helping hand in building the
foundations of a new democratic Germany. +END

JANUARY 1953

--- Page 18 ---
Youth Flee Service in Soviet Zone’s Army

FFORTS TO recruit East German young people for

military or paramilitary service are being stepped
up in the face of continued strong resistance from Soviet
Zone youth, according to officials of Berlin Element,
HICOG.

Reporis from young people who have been fleeing
to the West at a greatly accelerated rate during the
last six months of 1952 and critical articles in the East
Zone Communist press itself show that the Soviet-
German authorities have been exerting steadily greater
pressure to get young people to don a Soviet-style
uniform. At the same time, Berlin Element studies
reveal, the opposition among East Zone youth to service
as “Soviet mercenaries” has correspondingly grown.

Over the last few months emphasis has been shifted
from recruitment for the paramilitary sport and labor
organizations “Service for Germany” and “Sport and
Technology” to propaganda for enlistment in more
clearly military formations such as the “People’s Police
in Barracks.”

The uninterrupted flood of recruiting propaganda
since Soviet Zone President Wilhelm Pieck’s May Day
speech announcing the creation of armed forces in-
dicates that Soviet Zone authorities are bending every
effort to swell the strength of their armed forces,
already numbering more than 100,000 men, officials
stated.

The importance attached by Soviet Zone authorities
to a speedy build-up of their armed forces is revealed
in the public exhortations to individual Socialist Unity
Party (SED) members to recruit as many of their ac-
quaintances as possible for military service.

NE OF COUNTLESS such articles appeared in the

Saechsische Zeitung (Dresden) Sept. 5. Under the
heading “Improve Recruiting for the People’s Police,”
writer Walter Niegisch demanded that “all party mem-
bers in the lowest echelons participate individually in
recruiting in factories under the instructions of the local
party leaders.” Junge Welt (East Berlin), in a similar
article Oct. 5, urged that these pressure tactics be car-
ried out in all plants, “in which there are enough young
men.”

An apprentice approached by a delegation of plant
officials urging him to enlist is deliberately placed in
a situation where it is very difficult for him to decline,
the HICOG studies show.

Press and radio recruiting propaganda follows the
customary Soviet Zone pattern of cajolery and threat.
Prospective recruits are urged to “rise to the occasion”
(the alleged danger of attack from a “capitalist-impe-
rialist” oriented Federal Republic) and to put patriotism
first.

In a typical expression of this type, appearing in Frei-
heit (Halle) Sept. 25, the writer chided young men for
preferring marriage and family life to service in the

JANUARY 1953

“people’s army.” “We all want to enjoy family life,” she
wrote. “And for that very reason it is necessary that the
state in which we live be strong, that we have a people’s
army to protect our women and children...

“One must not think only of his little private desires
and cares, one must be conscious of the whole picture.
Therefore: everything to strengthen our people’s police.”

Constant efforts are made to convince young people
that their countrymen expect them to join the armed
forces. A favorite method is to attribute militant senti-
ments to mothers and girls. Thus, in the Volksstimme
(Chemnitz), the mother and “friend of peace” Lisa
Wagner was quoted Oct. 22 as saying, “I am determined
to defend peace with a gun in my hand, because, as a
mother, I will do everything to secure peace for my
children.”

Similarly, in a discussion on the question, “What is
happiness?” Junge Welt (East Berlin) reported Dec. 3
a girl with the symbolic name of Ingrid Tank as affirm-
ing that the happiest moment of her life was when she
saw “our young people’s police march past with shoul-
dered rifles.”

A frequent appeal is to youth’s desire for prestige.
Prospective recruits are told that “all eyes will admire
them,” when they march down the street in their snappy
uniforms, and recruiting propaganda is replete with
broad hints that joining the military people’s police is
a sure way to success with the girls.

An example of this unsubtle but much-used gambit
is a story by Gerhardt Neuhof in the Aug. 9 issue of
Das Volk (Weimar), in which shy Peter wins popular
Annelies from his many rivals by the simple expedient
of joining up, after dark-eyed Annelies has made her
desires clear: “Take a rifle in your hand; that’s what
is needed now.”

The amount of space devoted to a defense of the Sov-
iet Zone army as different from “mercenary armies,”
indicated deep sensitivity of Soviet Zone authorities on
this score. Refugee, East Zone police report widespread
dissatisfaction with the fact that the East Zone army is
controlled at very step by Soviet officers. These officers,
called “Sovietniks,” are placed in every unit down to
platoon level. Even the new olive-drab uniforms of the
East Zone army emphasize the mercenary status of the
troops, since they are nearly indistinguishable from
Soviet army uniforms.

One conclusion to be drawn from the Eastern recruit-
ing efforts, according to the Berlin Element studies, is
that the sustained effort to increase the size of Soviet
Zone armed forces and paramilitary organizations in a
period in which a defense contribution by the Federal
Republic is still only a future prospect constitutes fur-
ther evidence that Soviet Zone authorities are not in-
terested in a peaceful reunification of Germany, but
rather in the most rapid possible build-up of Soviet
bloc striking power.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Retired High Commissioner Donnelly

Calis on Federal President Heuss

it first press conference, meets 140 correspondents rep-
esenting German and foreign newspapers, radio and
ewsreels.

High Commissioner Donnelly Departs

Walter J. Donnelly, US high commissioner in Germany since
Aug. 1, resigned in December, retiring from the US Foreign
Service after thirty years of service. He and his family departed
from Germany Dec. 11 for consultations in Washington before
his retirement became effective Dec. 31.

Until the appointment of a new high commissioner, Samuel
Reber, deputy high commissioner, is serving as acting high com-
missioner. Mr. Reber, a State Department career officer, came
to Germany in June 1950, to become director of the Office of
Political Affairs. Last summer he became assistant high com-
missioner, and later deputy high commissioner.

Mr. Donnelly succeeded John J. McCloy last August after he

had been-US high commissioner, and later ambassador, to Aus--

tria for nearly two years. Previously he had held diplomatic
posts in South and Central America.

In his letter of Nov. 17 to President Truman, Mr. Donnelly
said, “It is with genuine regret that I ask you to accept my res-
ignation as chief of diplomatic mission and as United States
high commissioner for Germany.” Pointing out that “it will be
recalled that I reached’ this decision several months ago,” he
added, “When it was indicated to me that the Government
would prefer to have me postpone my retirement, I agreed to do
so until the end of this year.”

Stating that “it has been a great privilege to serve our Gov-
ernment from thirty consecutive years at a number of posts in
the Foreign Service,” Mr. Donnelly declared: “I am proud of the
Foreign Service of our Government and of its members with

whom I have been associated during the past thirty years. I shall”

continue to take-an active interest in the foreign affairs of our
country and needless to say I shall always be available to our
Government for consultation.”

In a statement made public with the announcement of his
resignation, Mr. Donnelly said:

“My stay in Germany has been one of the most interesting
and challenging assignments of my thirty years of government
service, although it has been far shorter than I would like to
have made it. But, as you know, I came here with an under-
standing with the State Department prior to my arrival that
personal considerations would make it necessary for me to leave
by the end of this year.

“During my stay I have been impressed by the extraordinary
recovery which the people of Germany have made since the
war. To me it is nothing short of miraculous that in the past
seven years Germany could have rebuilt out of its ruins the
present vigorous economy.

With Ambassador Draper, visits
Berlin Industry Exhibition

At exchange oroup meeting
greets Dr. Walter Hallstein

“I know that in the field of private housing and in trans-
portation and in certain other areas there are still great short-
ages in Germany. But what has been done here since 1945 is
evidence of what can be accomplished when a people devotes
its full energies to reconstruction and rehabilitation.

“I am also greatly impressed by the efforts of democratic
forces in Germany — in and outside the government — to foster
the growth of democratic institutions and of a democratic po-
litical atmosphere here. In twelve years the Nazi regime had
almost completely obliterated the great tradition of German
liberalism and democracy. It is a great credit to the leaders of
Germany that they have been able to re-establish and
strengthen this tradition, and that they have firmly and con-
stantly opposed the small but persistent development of neo-

\. Nazism. This is a danger to Germany which must be con-

sistently exposed and resisted. It is reassuring that the over-
whelming majority of the German people reject the false
philosophy of Communism and have stood firm against bland-
ishments and threats from the East. To me there is no moral
difference between the aims of Nazism and Communism.

“The most moving experience of my stay in Germany has
been my visits to Berlin. The stand of the people of West Ber-
lin in the face of harassment and terror is an inspiring example
of courage and faith in Western ideals. The free world must
continue to support Berlin in its struggle to maintain political
freedom and economic well-being.

“The genuinely popular support of integration of Germany -

within a larger European community is an encouraging devel-
opment. The desire is widespread for better understanding with
neighboring countries and for the realization of common goals
in Europe, and has been expressed tangibly in cooperation with
the European Council and the Schuman Plan. I am confident
that the basis of Western unity will soon be broadened and
strengthened by the EDC Treaty and the Contractual Agree-
ments.

“I am grateful for the cooperation of my colleagues of the
Allied High Commission and the loyal support of my own staff.
They have been of immeasurable value to me in carrying out
my assignment as US high commissioner. I also appreciate the
friendliness and understanding shown by Germen officials, pol-
itical leaders and private citizens. To me this is an expression
of the good-will of the German people toward the people of the
United States.”

With Mrs. Donnelly,
welcomes Margaret Truman

Acting High Commissioner Reber

Confers with SHAPE Commander Ridgway
a

Between lines of saluting Marines, the Donnelly famil
leaves the Bad Godesberg residence for the airport an
the United States.

--- Page 20 ---
Continued from page 5

SS United States

who working hand in hand take up
political and economic problems of
world-wide scope with realism,
commonsense and _ broad-minded-
ness and who bring about solutions
of a definite character.

E GERMANS thankfully ap-

preciate the sacrifice of the
American people for the reconstruc-
tion of Europe. We feel much
stronger now knowing that this
great nation today stands at our side.
You understand that we devote our
energies in the first place to the re-
construction and reunification of our
shattered and torn country. You also
understand that we must claim hu-
man rights and especially the free-
dom and dignity of man and the
right of everybody to live in his
home-country for the entire Ger-
man nation. Those Germans who
live in freedom have formed for
themselves a new political body, the
Federal Republic, which today has
the largest population on the Euro-
pean mainland west of the Iron
Curtain. If this area is allowed to
regain economic health, moral

Huge stern of SS United States is shown above as ship was tied to the
new Columbus dock in Bremerhaven. US Lines ship made first regular call

at Bremerhaven on January 3. (All photos provided by Information Office, Amer-
ican Consulate General, Bremen. Cover photo by Helmut Maszun, those on page 5
and above by Anneliese Wuestinger.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

strength and good political order, its
integration on equal terms with the
free world can result only in ben-
efit for the community of free na-
tions.

From this ship our eyes turn be-
yond the mouth of the Weser river to
the sea. Everybody here knows how
much we have endeavored during
the past few years to join again in
world transportation with a merch-
ant fleet of our own. This is not at
all a question of prestige, but a com-
pelling necessity for a country which
like ours depends vitally on its ex-
port trade to ensure its people a
good standard of living and to offer
them a worth-while life.

Te FEDERAL Government,
therefore, soon after taking of-
fice has opened negotiations with the
occupation powers about gradual re-
laxation of the restrictions holding

down the new German merchant .

marine. I should like to take this
occasion to express our thanks par-
ticularly to the responsible officers
of the American missions in Bre-
men, Hamburg, Frankfurt and Bonn
where we have found especially
sympathetic understanding of our
aspirations.

18

On Sept. 30, 1949, four years after
the collapse, our small coastal fleet
which remained totaled only 248,000
tons. From new construction, foreign
purchase and repair of raised wrecks,
German tonnage has increased again
to 1,600,000 by the end of 1952. When
the projects under way at the pres-
ent time will be completed, approx-
imately DM 1,500,000,000 (equivalent
to $357,000,000) predominately from
our own resources, will have been
invested in the German merchant |
fleet since September 1949. Foreign
exchange earned or saved in other-
wise unavoidable expenditures for
chartering, freight and passenger
fares amounted to more than DM
400,000,000 in 1952 alone. I believe
that this figure represents quite a
considerable contribution to the
strengthening of economic stability
in Europe. This was achieved in
spite of our limitation to freighters
and special vessels. Transportation
of passengers which in the past was
operated by German liners with so
much success had to give way to
more urgent requirements.

CEAN TRAFFIC is not only the

sum of individual transportation
services of the various countries,
but rather a task to be taken up and
solved jointly by all seafaring na-
tions. For this reason, international
cooperation is of special importance
here. We are well aware of how
much especially the slowly emerging
German merchant marine is depend-
ent on this international cooperation.
This knowledge is the result of im-
pressive experience in the past and
especially of an important tradition
which is marked by successful co-
operation between the North Ger-
man Lloyd and the Hamburg Amer-
ica Line on the one hand and the
United States Lines on the other.
From 1929 up to the beginning of
the last war the above companies
have pooled their shipping to the
benefit of both themselves and the
shippers.

I would be happy if the friendly
spirit of today’s festivity would help
to pave the way for new solutions
of this kind. Also from this point of
view we are pleased to see that the
United States Lines as one of the

JANUARY 1953

--- Page 21 ---
first foreign shipping companies has
spared no effort to restore their or-
ganization in the Federal area, and
that they have included German
ports in their service already for
some time. Fortunately it can be
stated that this farsighted decision
is not only a valuable gesture, but
has also paid off economically. The
number of passengers and goods
loaded and unloaded by vessels of
the United States Lines has more
than surpassed even high expecta-
tions.

We BELIEVE the arrangements
of the United States Lines for
service to Germany justify the hope
that American shipping circles will
continue to promote the desirable
cooperation which I have just men-
tioned, and that jointly with the
German companies they will try to
remedy the rather unsatisfactory
situation in the shipping confer-
ence.* Of course, a solution of the
difficulties will only be possible, if
some of the companies concerned
come to realize that the inevitable
acquisition of former German fields
of interest during the first few years
after the war was of a transitional
nature; that the time has come to
concede again a proper place to Ger-
man overseas shipping and to Ger-
man ports, and that we cannot put
up with an insufficient number of
German sailings and with range-
charges to the disadvantage of our
ports. Nobody will be surprised, if
especially in this respect we call
upon the American companies for
understanding and support.

On the other hand, the German
shipping companies will regard it
as their foremost task to observe
again fair play in international com-
petition and to do their share to-
wards smooth cooperation. Also the
German ports will endeavor to serve
foreign shipping in a way satisfac-
tory for them. Speed and careful
handling in our ports should hardly
leave room for criticism today.
At this point, also Bremerhaven
should be mentioned. Bremer-

‘refers to international conference then
in session concerning transatlantic freight
rates,

JANUARY 1953

haven’s natural advantages unsur-
Passed in Germany have been devel-
oped specially for overseas shipping.
The port is also provided with mod-
ern equipment for passenger serv-
ice. Thanks to large-scale recon-
struction and re-equipment, Bre-
merhaven today offers good and
economical facilities for big line
service.

N CLOSE collaboration with the

City of Bremen, the Federal Gov-
ernment has given special attention
to this port. Channels are main-
tained by the Federal Port Admin-
istration with special care. The re-
quired depths are constantly as-
sured. The Federal Government is
continually spending large sums of
money for this purpose. Also the
lights and signals at the entrance to
the port are again according to
peacetime standards. We are plan-
ning to add modern radar equip-
ment. This port, therefore, will be
accessible to big liners at all times
and its equipment will meet all pre-
sent-day requirements.

You will understand our feelings:
feelings of cordial relations and the
joy of welcoming this beautiful big
ship in Bremerhaven. With admira-
tion we view this masterpiece of
modern ship-building, and we want
to congratulate heartily the officers
of the United States Lines and the
American citizens present here for
this wonder of supermodern technol-
ogy. This ship sailing under the
Stars and Stripes carries the glory
of the superior skill of North Amer-
ican shipbuilders and workers all
over the world. During the months
to come it will bring thousands of
Passengers to and away from Bre-
men. They all will feel well in the
artistically designed rooms of this
magnificent ship, and they certainly
will be as deeply impressed as we
who have come aboard for this cel-
ebration today.

May this ship under the proud
name “United States” sail at all
times with good fortune. May it be a
bridge of lasting friendship and un-
derstanding between your country
and ours. +END

19

Personnel Notes

C. Montagu Pigott
AMCONGEN photo by Hopp

Consul General in Frankfurt

C. Montagu Pigott arrived in
Frankfurt Dec. 14 to take over the
duties as US consul general in
Frankfurt, succeeding Albert N.
Doyle who had retired Sept. 30. Mr.
Pigott was on leave in the United
States from his former post in Bil-
bao, Spain, when the appointment
was made. In the interim, Consul
Byron B. Snyder, executive officer
of the Consulate, was in charge of
the office.

Born in St. Paul, Minn., Mr. Pi-
gott was educated in California and
graduated from Stanford University.
After working as a mining engineer
in Mexico and sales manager for a
rubber company, Mr. Pigott joined
the Department of State in 1942. He
became a senior economic analyst
in the Foreign Service Auxiliary at
Montevideo later in that year. He
was made assistant chief of Supplies
Branch, Petroleum Division, in 1945.
He was appointed a Foreign Service
officer with the rank of consul and
secretary in the Diplomatic Service
in 1947, and was assigned to duties
in Washington. Mr. Pigott became
first secretary and consul at Bucha-
rest in 1947, and was named Consul
at Bilbao on Jan. 30, 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 22 ---
SQUOUUANUROGAOROLONONORODAONESEOAENEGNONoOROREEONAONONNONoONOgonNORES

Czech Purge Trial

West German newspapers showed
critical editorial interest in the
Slansky-Clements trial in Prague
during late November. In reporting
the development of the trial, the
papers stressed especially the anti-
Semitic tendencies of the charges
and “confessions”, the absurdity of
some of the charges, the self-incri-
mination of the accused, the pos-
sibility that the trials in Czecho-
slovakia may lead to similar trials
in the Soviet Zone of Germany, the
shocking letters in which Lisa Lon-
donova asked a “severe sentence”
for her husband and Frejka’s son

asked the death penalty for his
father.
West German papers quickly

picked up the anti-Semitic character
of the trial. Several papers in edito-
rializing news stories pointed out
that a display of anti-Semitism may
be very helpful for the Communist
bloc in its effort to win the Arab
nations. Nuernberger Nachrichten
(Nuremberg, Nov. 25) also reported

Now it is Pankow’s turn (Pankow is
residence of Soviet Zone German of-
ficials in East Berlin). — from Han-
noversche Presse (Hanover, Nov. 28).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking. The selection has been made so as
to cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press,
and to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion
of any event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence
by US authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced

by the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

F

Voice from the grave: “I, Karl Marx,
also plead guilty to being a cos-
mopolitan of Jewish-bourgeois or-
igin.” — from Suedkurier (Constance,
Dec. 5).

that a group of former SS officers
with definite leanings toward the
East is now active in Cairo, the
paper stressing that one of these
former SS-leaders, Dirlewanger, is
said to be in the pay of the Polish
legation in Cairo.

Several papers noted that some
of the charges and “confessions” in
this trial were so patently absurd
that no intelligent person could pos-
sibly believe them. Koelnische
Rundschau (Cologne, Nov. 26), for
instance, ridiculed the charge that
the extreme leftist British Laborite,

20

Konni Zilliacus, was named as the
intermediary between Slansky and
the “Anglo-American imperialists.”

Frankfurter Rundschau = (Frank-
furt, Nov. 26) pointed out that in
1951 Gottwald praised- Slansky as a
loyal Stalinist, whereas currently
Slansky was denounced as a cap-
italist-Titoist-Zionist conspirator.
Die Welt (Hamburg, Nov. 25) rid-
iculed the confessions of the accused
that they never were Communists at
all.

Several papers speculated about
the methods used to make the ac-
cused confess. Papers mentioned
several possibilities: physical torture,
psychological torture, even the pos-
ibility that a fanatical Communist
would be willing to sacrifice life and
honor if such a sacrifice would help
his party.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frank-
furt, Nov. 27) reported that “East-
Berlin is looking for a Slansky”. The
paper called attention to an editorial
in Neues Deutschland (SED daily in
East Berlin) according to which two
of the accused in Prague had close
connections in the Soviet Zone of
Germany. Frankfurter Neue Presse
(Frankfurt, Nov. 28) reported that
Paul Merker, former member of the
SED Politbureau but long in dis-
grace, was arrested in the Soviet
Zone.

Essener Aligemeine Zeitung (Es-
sen, Nov. 28) speculated that Ger-
hart Eisler, recently deposed as
propaganda chief, may be brought to
trial, perhaps also Kurt Mueller, the
Communist member of the Federal
Parliament who was abducted to the
Soviet Zone.

Peoples Democracies Progress. —
from Rheinischer Merkur (Coblenz,
Dec. 5).

JANUARY 1983

--- Page 23 ---
Don’t look, it may be catching! —

from Die Welt (Hamburg, Nov. 26).

The SED _ publication Neues
Deutschland (Nov. 25) featured the
full text of a letter in which Lisa
Londonova asked a severe sentence
for her husband. The Soviet Zone
news agency ADN reported that the
son of the accused Frejka demanded
the death penalty for his father. All
West German papers which com-
mented on the two letters expressed
complete horror at this perversion
of all natural feelings. Sueddeutsche
Zeitung (Munich, Nov. 27), for in-
stance, wrote about the Frejka let-
ter:

“What will go on in the soul of the
young Frejka when he hears that
his dearest wish has been fulfilled
and his father hanged? This is a
ghastly world. One shudders. Un-
fortunately there have always been
gallows and hangmen. But sons who
beg that their father be hanged are
new. Is this not a symptom of an
age characterized by fear, ideology
and madness.”

Using the title of Koestler’s book
“Darkness at Noon” as a headline,
Frankfurter Allgemeine wrote about
the Londonova letter: “That a gov-
ernment dares to publish such a let-
ter in the hope the letter will be
welcomed by the masses, suddenly
makes us the contemporaries of the
People in the book ‘1984’.”

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Nov. 28)
compared the developments in Pra-
gue to the horrible events of the
Nazi regime and cites Frejka’s son

JANUARY 1953

as proof that by its absolute power a
dictatorial government can destroy
all human qualities of its subjects.

Stalin’s Birthday Overlooked

The Sozialistische Volkszeitung, a
Communist periodical issued in
Frankfurt, was reported in the Ger-
man press to have strongly criticized
the designers of the 1953 calendar
attached to the New Year's issue of
the periodical. Its officials were re-
ported to have received some tel-
ephone calls protesting that Stalin’s
birthday (Dec. 21) was not so noted
on the calendar.

Bishop Dibelius

The East Zone Communists’
threats to remove Protestant Bishop
Otto Dibelius from office and ban
him from the Soviet Zone prompted
several editorial writers to speculate
Dec. 18 on the future of the Prot-
estant Church in the East Zone.

According to Westdeutsche Allge-
meine (Essen), it is difficult to pre-
dict whether or not the anti-Dibelius
press campaign in the East Zone
press signaled the advent of an SED
administration crack down on the
East Zone Protestant church. There
could be no doubt, the paper spec-
ulated, that the East Zone govern-
ment had plans ready for the “re-
organization of the relations be-
tween Church and State.” One could
also assume it was not considered

Ill by order of Stalin — Patriarch
Alexei: “The Western air is nix goot
for me, Tovarich Dibelius.” — from
Braunlager Zeitung (Braunlage, Lower
Saxony, Nov. 29).

that Bishop Dibelius would be a
“qualified” supporter of such a new
“church policy.”

Despite all this, the Allgemeine
went on, it was not impossible that
the waves of excitement would
abate, and that, at least for the time
being, nothing would happen; the
“Dibelius crisis” came unexpectedly
to the Reds, and the SED had to
wait for the green light from Mos-
cow; the Kremlin, however, still
hesitated because it felt uncertain
about future developments among
the Western nations.

Praising Bishop Dibelius for his
continuous efforts to hold Christians
on both sides of the Iron Curtain to-
gether, Mannheimer Morgen (Mann-
heim) contrasted Bishop Dibelius
with Pastor Martin Niemoeller:
when Niemoeller traveled to Moscow
he was severely criticized; when Di-
belius accepted the invitation by the

Important changes in the Kremlin. — from Essener Tageblatt (Essen, Oct. 16).

The former Politbureau.

21

The new Presidium.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 24 ---
Moscow Patriarch (later withdrawn).

there was not that kind of criticism.
The paper explained people trusted
Bishop Dibelius to a much greater
extent than they did Niemoeller. The
Morgen remarked “there are people
in Germany as well as in other
Western nations who always rub
their hands in glee when a man,
holding a prominent position, fails
in his attempts to permit certain
ideals which are above the East-
West strife to survive; there is no
reason to rejoice if the last ships are
being burned.”

Danger of Shady Side

Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf,
Dec. 18) attacked several German
newspapers for “making primitive
pro-US propaganda.” The paper
came out against what it called the
“civilization hubbub which may be
all right for American big cities, but
not for a country which has gone
through two wars and lost them.”

Stressing that many Germans
would mix up “comics, jitterbug-
competition, Reno divorces, Holly-
wood, and Santa Claus (i. e. com-
mercializing Christmas) with polit-
ical matters like the EDC treaties”
the paper feared that not only Ger-
man culture but also German-Amer-
ican relations may syffer by the “in-
vasion of the shady side of American
civilization.”

Treaties Controversy

The parliamentary debate on the
question of German ratification of
the Contractual Agreements and the
European Derense Convention was

The new German EDC soldier. — from Aachener Nachrichten (Aachen, Nov. 6).

NOTHING
TO REPORT,
Sik

given prominence in the German
press during most of December. The
editorial comments on this subject
settled into a lull over the Christmas
holidays.

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart,
Dec. 18) carriéd an editorial by F. R.
Allemann, Bonn correspondent of
the Zurich newspaper Die Tat, who,
maintaining that the tension be-
tween the Government and the Op-
position had decreased considerably
after the middle of the month, said
both sides seemed to realize that
continuation of their rigid policies
would keep them in the current
political “blind alley.”

The writer warned the chancellor
not to believe that internal political
concession, such as new elections or
possibly a CDU-SPD coalition,
might induce the SPD to subscribe
to the treaties in their present form.
He considered it unlikely, on the
other hand, that the chancellor
would capitulate before the SPD’s
“extremely vague foreign political
conceptions.”

Allemann proposed a coalition-op-
position agreement, if not on a com-
mon foreign policy, at least on the
methods of policy; the government
should consult the SPD in the future
negotiations concerning a revision of
the treaties, and the SPD should
declare its readiness to cooperate,
after the elections, in a constitu-
tional reform which would establish
the constitutional prerequisites for
the Federal Republic’s military sov-
ereignty.

Sueddeutsche Zeitung
Dec. 18.)

(Munich,
recalled that the grand

coalition in Bavaria which includes
the SPD, had proved successful and
advised Bonn to repeat the exper-
iment on a higher level..

Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden,
Dec. 18) commenting on a radio in-
terview by Chancellor Adenauer,
called his political explanations
“conciliatory” and a good opening
for negotiations with the SPD. The
paper however, warned, against the
thought that an SPD-CDU coalition
was possible, for while Adenauer
and the SPD basically agreed on the
necessity of German participation in
Western defense, they basically dis-
agreed on methods, and each side
would ‘stick to its views for prestige
reasons until new elections changed
the situation.

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt, Dec. 18) considered the current
political crisis in the Federal Repub-
lic “extremely serious,” particularly
in view of possible German rearma-
ment outside the EDC. This would,
in the paper’s opinion, not only ag-
gravate domestic difficulties in the
Federal Republic but constitute a
“further strain on Franco-German
relations.”

Commenting on the submission of
the report on the German-Allied
treaties to the Federal Parliament
Dec. 1 by its Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, the newspapers emphasized
the committee’s recommendations for
five additional clauses: (1) a further
Allied request for reparations from
Germany, (2) speedy negotiations on
private German assets abroad, (3) a
statement by the Parliament de-
nouncing the confiscation of private

WERL
& B
 B
 B

—~all]

Snappy

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Forging ahead Foresight

22

Equal

JANUARY 1953

--- Page 25 ---
German assets, (4) the return of
German trade marks, and (5) return
of buildings formerly belonging to
German diplomatic missions abroad.

To this, Frankfurter Allgemeine
(Frankfurt, Dec. 2) stressed that the
decision was based on “thorough
legal and political examinations,”
adding that the majority’s “yes” did
not sound “too enthusiastic,” but ex-
pressing hope that the additional
clauses might help “those delegates
who so far have hesitated” to come
out in favor of the ratification.

In an editorial previewing the par-
liamentary debate, Die Welt (Ham-
burg, Dec. 3) said the ratification de-
bate was going to center around
three vital questions: (1) Can Ger-
many refuse to become a partner in
the free world’s defense community?
(2) Can she refuse to accept the idea
that the Western “balance-of-power”
plan is a workable political system?
(3) Can she afford to miss the op-
portunity offered by the West of de-
fending herself against any future
Eastern aggression? To all these
questions, the papers’ answer was an
emphatic “No.”

Germany, Die Welt explained, has
to become a partner in the EDC
because only then could her “ex-
istence in freedom be guaranteed.”
The “balance-of-power” system was

|

FEDERAL
CONSTITUTIONAL

i
4

Make room, Erich — Here I come. —
from Frankfurter Rundschau (Frank-
furt, Dec. 6).

JANUARY 1953

workable because it was the only
way of discouraging the East from
starting an aggressive war. Like any
other nation, Germany has the right
to defend herself. For that reason,
all arguments that she do so with-
out the aid of other nations were
“illusory.”

The decisions to appeal to the Fed-
eral Constitutional Court (the Ger-
man Supreme Court located in
Karlsruhe) for ruling on the con--
stitutionality of the treaties caused
several newspapers to comment
Dec. 5 that the decision had been
made just for “tactical reasons.” The
subsequent announcement from
Karlsruhe that the court’s legal opin-
ion would be “binding for both of its
senates” was described in the press
as hitting Bonn “like a bombshell.”
After this announcement President
Theodor Heuss withdrew his request
for ‘a legal opinion.

Koelnische Rundschau and Rheini-
scher Merkur (both of Cologne,
Dec. 11) felt the Karlsruhe court had
no right to declare a decision on the
request binding for both senates of
the court, emphasizing that only the
legislature should be allowed to
“change” the statutes.

Marcel Schulte, political editor of
the Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt, Dec. 12), in an editorial contem-
plating the “young democratic his-
tory” of the Federal Republic, stated
the Government coalition and op-
position alike were responsible for
the current treaty dilemma and
charged both with using “cheap shy-
sters’ tricks” to get the issue before
“their” court senate.

While the coalition and opposition
were engaged in this battle, “Com-
munists as well as Fascist” rub their
hands in glee, the Neue Presse com-
mentary continued, stressing that
these radical groups would be only
too glad to do away with the free
state “which they hate” as well as
those who “frivolously play” with
politics. The Weimar republic went
under in January 1933 because the
men who then were leading the re-
public also had quarreled with one
another, the paper concluded.

23

The EDC race. — from Hamburger
Abendblatt (Hamburg, Nov. 24).

Really, son, it is the only way. —

from Westfaelische Nachrichten

(Muenster, Dec. 5).

Following this, Telegraf (Berlin,
Dec. 14) carried an editorial by its
chief editor Arno Scholz asserting
that it did not matter whether or not
the ratification took place inJanuary,
since the government’s latest ma-
neuvers had devalued the treaties so
much that none of the measures re-
sulting from the treaties could ever
become popular in Germany. The
only way out of this situation, he
said, was new elections.

In the opinion expressed in the
Telegraf, the Allies should realize
it was wrong to reach such im-
portant decisions with the aid of
only part of the German people.
American voices were wrong in say-
ing the German people were min-
imizing the American services to
peace and economic recovery of the
free world: there were only a few
Germans who did not appreciate
American aid. But, the paper em-
phasized, the Americans must under-
stand that in spite of all assistance,
the Germans must make their own
decisions. If such decisions some-
times do not agree with American
conceptions, the Americans should
not be annoyed, but should study the
reasons and have understanding for
both standpoints.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 26 ---
Views of Labor Chief

Replies by Walter Freitag, pres-
ident of the German Federation of
Trade Unions (DGB), to a series of
questions submitted by a staff cor-
respondent covering wages and pri-
ces, co-determination, defense part-
icipation and alleged employer
“propaganda,” were printed in the
Westdeutsche Neue Presse (Duessel-
dorf, Dec. 10). Translation of the
correspondent’s questions and the
DGB president’s answers follows.

Question: In recent weeks, about
80 collective wage agreements were
terminated in the Federal area. How
do the unions support their wage de-
mands in these negotiations since
the employers have been pointing
out consistently that the consumer
price index has been declining since
May 1952?

Answer: The statement about the
declining consumer price index is
correct. Purchasing is not as it was
a few years ago. No one can now
buy for his wages what he received
two years ago. If the manual work-
ers must complain that their wages
are out of line with prices, the com-
plaint of salaried employees in pri-
vate industry and commerce and
particularly of the civil service of-
ficials is so much the more under-
standable especially since their earn-
ings, especially those of civil serv-
ants, have lagged considerably.
Those who must live on pensions
and public benefits are also affected.
The employers should not always
speak of the wage-price relation-
ship. The gross national product has
risen and an adjustment in wages
and salaries to the larger national
product is therefore absolutely ne-
cessary.

Question: What do the unions in-
tend doing about improving the Gen-
eral Co-determination Law? Do they
intend asking the Federal Govern-
ment to postpone the date for the
works council elections?

Answer: First of all, it will be the
job of the tariff partners to imple-
ment the idea of labor co-deter-
mination in the individual enter-
prises and thus to place co-deter-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

mination in operation. Negotiations
have been held on works council
election. The Federal Government
wishes to issue a supplementary
measure enabling the elections to be
held generally in the first quarter of
1953.

Question: At the end of Septem-
ber, the Association for Protection
of Shareholders announced in a cir-
cular to the executive management
and boards of directors in the iron
and steel-producing. industry that
the shareholders intended resuming
their ownership function on the ba-
sis of the general shareholders’
meetings prescribed under corpora-
tion law. It is feared that the uni-
form steel workers’ pensions may
be torpedoed in this manner. How
is this danger to be judged and what
is intended?

Answer: We know that State Sec-
retary a. D. Schmidt is trying, to
get the shareholders, insofar as they
belong to his organization, to adopt
measures which would considerably
disturb the existing right of co-
determining in coal and steel. Cha-
racteristically, there are government
agencies and broad circles of in-
dustry, as well as a part of the gov-
ernment parties, which pretend that
only the trade unions are peace-
breakers. The action of the former
State Secretary Schmidt means that
the coal and steel industries may be-
come subject to severe shocks. The
workers and employees in these
plants will never permit their being
deprived of rights they have won.
This question is closely connected
with Law No. 27 and thus with the
exchange of shares in the coal and
steel industries. This question ur-
gently requires clarification.

Question: It is not yet definite
when parliament will consider and
enact the Labor Courts Bill. Does
the DGB intend intervening with
competent Bonn agencies to expedite
matters?

Answer: Yes. Talks led by DGB
executive and Federal parliament
deputy Willi Richter are now under
way. He has drawn in a large num-
ber of experts who advise him in
this matter.

24

Question: With the coming Fed-
eral Film Bank and reorganization
of the Ufi complex (founding of
three film unit companies), the danger
exists that German film production
will be a sphere of government
propaganda during the coming year.
In this connection, what are the
prospects for the North German
Film Bureau?

Answer: Together with some state
governments in northern Germany,
the DGB is developing measures
designed to prevent a further move-
ment of the film industry into the
hands of certain interested groups.

Question: We are now experienc-
ing a “galloping inflation” of man-
agement propaganda means. What
counter-action are the unions tak-
ing?

Answer: When the unions are
charged with attempting to influence
workers and employees by word
and writing, they have an absolute
right to point out that they find
themselves in a defensive position.
Recent efforts by employers to in-
fluence public opinion are really
gigantic. They use shop bulletins,
publications, of all kinds, and ad-
vertisements. The trade unions will
defend themselves by increased ac-
tivity. This fight against the unions
is not only being conducted, howev-
er, by the employers’ associations; it
is assisted by political parties and
front organizations whose back-
ground the DGB will reveal. In the
future, it is therefore also a duty
of the unions to follow closely
changes in ownership of well-known
newspapers and periodicals.

New Wage Drive Seen

Referring to recent terminations
of collective agreements, the Volks-
wirt (economic journal, Frankfurt,
Nov. 15) stated that the relative calm
in the wage sphere which had pre-
vailed in 1952 appears to be coming
to an end. About 80 collective agree-
ments in various branches of indus-
try throughout the Federal Republic
were terminated by the unions in or
about September.

These terminations, however, are
not the first signs of a new wage

JANUARY 1983

--- Page 27 ---
movement, the journal continued.
New wage agreements were nego-
tiated between July and October in
14 branches of industry and 17
branches of commerce and handi-
crafts covering 13 state districts,
particularly metal manufacturing,
woodworking, stones and earths,
shoes, breweries, and foods and
stimulants industries. Wage  in-
creases, which differ from industry
to industry, amounted to between 4
to 6 pfennigs* hourly for skilled
workers.

These new agreements obviously
reflected the union desire to obtain
an adjustment to the general level
in such groups which had been lag-
ging. Now, the question arises,
however, whether the new termina-
tions only represent an extended
adjustment process or permit more
far-reaching conclusions, the journal
continued.

The extent of the new termina-
tions lead to the assumption that
more than a correction of local dif-
ferences or a general adjustment is
at stake here.

It is remarkable that the unions
continued to argue that a decrease
in wages and salaries in comparison
with consumer prices was the reason
for their new wage demands, while,
according to officials statistics, gross
earnings of industrial workers rose
by five percent between September
1951 and May 1952, as compared
with a consumer price index of 167
in September 1952 which is one point
lower than in August and six points
lower than. in May. This formulation
which was obviously chosen for
propagandist reasons and which also
has a political background, is very
effective in practice despite its con-
tradiction to official statistics, the
Volkswirt stated.

A new general wage movement is
confronted with some economic
handicaps. Viewed as a whole, the
employers have only little or no in-
clination at all to make concessions.
Although the consumer goods in-
dustries would welcome a further
expansion of the purchasing power

*100 pfennigs equivalent to 23.8 cents.

JANUARY 1953

The New DGB Chairman Freitag: “Now Ill show you, dear Christian, how to
make politics.” — from Ruhr Nachrichten (Dortmund), Oct. 18-19.

of the population, wage increase in
many enterprises would be possible
only at the expense of investments.
Another major reason against a
general wage increase is the present
export situation. Higher domestic
raw material prices already require
closest accounting in exports. If ad-
ditional burdens should result from
a new wage drive, an unfavorable
development of German exports
might be expected, the Volkswirt
said in conclusion.

Reasons for Wage Drive

Discussing the same subject the
DGB journal Welt der Arbeit (Nov. 21)
said union measures cannot be sur-
prising to those familiar with the
wage conditions in the Federal Re-
public. Arguments that wages had
increased by 80 percent against 1938
while consumer prices had not risen
to the same extent, completely ig-
nored the circumstance that only
wages of industrial labor had
reached this level, while the earn-
ings of manual workers and salaried
employees in other fields lags far
behind.

Investigations conducted by the
DGB Economic Research Institute
(WWI) showed that in 1949, 13.9 per-
cent of all wage and salary earners
received less than DM 100 (equiv-
alent to $23.80) monthly, 56.4 percent

25

between DM 101 and DM 250, and
24.3 percent between DM 251 and
DM 500. In February 1952, four per-
cent earned less than DM 100,
38 percent between DM 101 and
DM 250, and 47 percent between
DM 251 and DM 400.

The official consumer price index
is based on an average income of
DM 360 monthly for the head of the
family and a total family income of
DM 380 which is spent in accordance
with a certain pattern. Clearly, fam-
ilies with a considerably lower in-
come necessarily distribute their in-
come differently. These households
are especially sensitive to an in-
crease in such essential expenditures
as for food and rent. Prices for basic
foods rose by 31 percent during the
last two years. A 30 percent boost in
rents for social housing construction
was announced. These are the rea-
sons for the union activity in the
wage sphere, the journal said.

It would be good for the German
economy if the American pattern
were followed in the consideration
of these problems. Here, it becomes
evident that an increase of the pur-
chasing power is by no means an
economic danger but rather con-
stitutes one of the strongest incen-
tives for higher productivity, partic-
ularly in the consumer goods in-
dustries.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 28 ---
Official Announcements

Case of Dr. Linse

In a note to Soviet authorities in East
Berlin, US High Commissioner Walter J.
Donnelly renewed Dec. 10 US requests
that West Berlin resident Dr. Walter
Linse be released and allowed to return
to his home. The text of the letter, ad-
dressed to Soviet General V.I. Chuikov,
follows.

Tomorrow I shall be leaving for home.
BeforeI go Imust once more request your
good offices in alleviating the fate, and
speeding the release, of Dr. Walter Linse
from the detention he has so unjustly
suffered in the Soviet Zone of Germany.

You doubtless know the Linse “case.”
You have seen the police reports, the
cold facts and figures; but I wonder if
you equally know the tragic drama
behind the “case,” which has received
so much publicity in the press in all
Parts of the West.

Mrs. Linse has visited me on many
occasions. Her story is so full of courage
and hope that I must again appeal to you.
I like to believe that under similar cir-
cumstances you too would be inspired
to write and speak on behalf of this
woman who has lost her husband who,
like her, must live in hope for the day
of their reunion.

Mrs. Linse is suffering the same men-
tal anguish which caused the death of
Dr. Linse’s father a few weeks after the
kidnaping of his son. She is constantly
tormented by the last picture anyone
had of her husband—that of a man
brutally dragged off by hooligans, leav-
ing behind one shoe and his glasses as
evidence of his brief and brave struggle.

I want to do whatever I can to ease
the suffering which Mrs. Linse is under-
going. Though her husband may be
lacking many things, she has constantly
in her mind he needs glasses, and that
he needs shoes. I would like to satisfy
her desire to replace these, which she
wants ‘especially to do now at the
Christmas season.

Mrs. Linse has asked if you could
furnish, through me, the prescription
for his glasses and the size of his shoes.
After she purchases these articles, she
will deliver them to me. I shall then
forward them to you and ask that you be
so good as to transmit them to Dr. Linse.
I shall appreciate it if I might then be
sent an acknowledgment from Dr. Linse
that he has received these articles, so
that I may reassure Mrs. Linse.

I also request that you have delivered
to Dr. Linse the food package which I
am sending him as a Christmas gift in
my own name. Dr. Linse must know
that I have not forgotten him, nor has
my country.

Finally, because I am so deeply moved
by the human suffering which has been
caused by this brutal kidnaping, I appeal
to you, General Chuikov, to leave noth-
ing undone to have Dr. Linse speedily
returned to his home. I would like to
feel that you and I have been able to
make the beginning of the New Year
the beginning of a new life for the
Linses.

The following statement was issued in
Berlin Dec. 10 by a spokesman for the
Berlin Element, HICOG.

Soviet authorities in Berlin have re-
turned the Christmas food package sent
to Dr. Walter Linse by US High Com-
missioner Walter J. Donnelly.

Incontrovertible evidence has been ad-
vanced to prove beyond the possibility
of doubt that Dr. Linse was kidnaped

INFORMATION BULLETIN

by agents hired for that purpose by East
Zone officials. It has also been proven
that Dr. Linse was taken into the Soviet
Zone immediately following the kidnap-
ing. Shortly after the abduction Soviet
representatives promised to investigate
the case and to inform US authorities
concerning their findings.

No news of Dr. Linse’s condition or
whereabouts has been received since the
crime was committed last July 7.

By their silence in the face of con-
clusive evidence that Dr. Linse was the
victim of an Eastern kidnaping ring, the
Soviet authorities are assuming the. bur-
den of complicity in a repugnant crime.
There is no excuse for the tactic they
have adopted.

It is clear that a crime such as that
involving Dr. Linse cannot be tolerated
in free West Berlin any more than it
could be tolerated in any area of the
democratic Western world. US officials
will continue to exert every effort in
cooperation with other authorities to
make West Berlin secure against dep-
redations directed against persons or
property. We will also, in the future as
in the past, explore every avenue which
seems to promise hope of securing the
release of Dr. Linse.

Speed for US Vehicles

Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, commander-
in-chief of the US Army, Europe, said
that no immediate action would be taken
to change the HICOG ordinance limiting
speeds of US military and civilian ve-
hicles on roads within the German Fed-
eral Republic.

The announcement followed passage of
a German law removing speed limits ef-
fective Jan. 23. The new law allows mo-
torists to choose the speeds but holds
them more strictly accountable for their
judgment if they are involved in an ac-
cident. Speed limits in towns and cities
are left to the discretion of community
governments.

USAREUR officials said the German
government action was under study and
how the new law would affect Amer-
icans would be explained before it went
into effect. Until then, US military and
civilian motor vehicle operators would
bedepbeeeeh! to observe present speed
mits.

Under HICOG Law 49, the speed limit
on super highways and open roads is
50 miles (80 kilometers) an hour for US
Passenger automobiles and motorcycles,
and 40 miles (60 kilometers) an hour for
trucks, buses and all other types of US-
operated vehicles. Within communities
the limit is 25 miles (40 kilometers) an
hour for US vehicles of all types, unless
posted otherwise. US motor vehicle
operators also are required by the
HICOG law to adjust the speed of their
vehicle to road, weather and traffic con-
eee minor USAREUR announcement

ec. 31.

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received in the editorial of-
fice of the Information Bulletin, Depart-
‘ment of State Bldg., Annex A, Frank-
furt/M, Luebecker Str., during December.
Requests for any of these publications
should be addressed to the originating
agency.

Monthly Report of the Mutual Security
Agency, Division of Statistics and Re-
ports, Mutual Security Agency (Wash-
ington), Aug. 31, 1952. Devoted to data
on “U.S. Foreign Trade.”

26

Official Gazette, No. 97, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Bonn-
Mehlem), Dec. 1, 1952. Official texts of
legislation and orders enacted by, or
under authority of, the Allied High
Commission, including recent orders of
the Combined Steel Group.

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVII, No. 701, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Dec. 1,
1952. Contents include “Education for
Living in a World Community” by As-
sistant Secretary Howland H. Sargeant

“An Answer to Soviet Attacks on
Policy toward Underdeveloped

US.
Areas” by Isador Lubin.

Der Monat (The Month), No. 51, Informa-
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Berlin), Dec. 1, 1952. An inter-
national political and intellectual mag-
azine in German for December.

Soziale Sicherheit in den Vereinigten
Staaten (Social Security in the United
States), US Informationsdienst, (Bad
Godesberg), Dec. 7, 1952. Special pub-
lication ‘in German.

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVII, No. 702, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Dec. 8,
1952. Contents include “The Universal
Validity of Man’s Right to Self-Deter-
mination” by Mrs. Franklin D. Roose-
velt and “Performance of the De-
Pendent Press in the Soviet Union” by
Charles A. Sprague.

Handbuch deutscher Frauenorganisatio-
nen (Guide to German Women’s Or-
ganizations), Informationsdienst fuer
Frauenfragen e.V. (Bonn-Bad Godes-
berg), Dec. 12, 1952. Directory listing
approximately 65 women organizations
and roster of women leaders in federal
government and political parties.

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVIII, No. 703, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Dec. 15,
1952. Contents include text of release
“US Bondholders Urged to Commu-
nicate with Committee for German
Corporate Bonds.”

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVII, No. 704, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Dec. .23,
1952. Contents include “US Information
Programs at Home and Abroad” by
Joseph B. Phillips and Reed Harris and
“Foreign Relations of the United States:
91 Years of American Foreign Policy”
by E.R. Perkins.

Official Gazette. No. 98, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Bonn-
Mehlem), Dec. 30, 1952. Official texts
of legislation and orders enacted by,
or under authority of, the Allied High
Commission, including recent orders
concerning dispersion of Farben assets,

Background Letter (Index for July-
December 1952), Publications Bran
Information Services Division, UK High
Commission in Germany (Wahnerheide),
Dec. 30, 1952. This was the final issue
of a small pamphlet issued once or,
twice a week during the past five years
by the British mission in Germany
with commentaries on the current
events, controversies and problems in
Germany.

Information Bulletin for November, In+
formation Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Dec. 30, 1963.
Contains articles and features on
activities in Germany.

Ae

Der Monat (The Month), No. 52, Informa

tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,

HICOG (Berlin), Dec. 31, 1952. An inter-

national political and intellectual mag>
azine in German for January.

JANUARY 1968

--- Page 29 ---
Berlin Ceremonies — At the start of the new year, three impressive ceremonies were held by the Allied forces in
Berlin. (above) US troops, who comprised the detail guarding the top German war criminals in Spandau Prison
during December, were relieved by the British guard detail at the customary ceremony Jan. 1 before the prison
gate. The British will guard the prison during January. (lower left) Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, retiring US
commander in Berlin, signed the Golden Book of the City of Berlin as Mayor Ernst Reuter and Maj. Gen. Thomas
S. Timberman look on. The ceremony took place Jan. 2 when General Mathewson, who was transferred to com-
mand of US Forces in France, introduced General Timberman, his successor, to Mayor Reuter. (lower right) A spe-
cial review was presented in honor of Gen. Pierre Manceaux-Demiau, new French commander in Berlin, succeeding
Pierre Carolet. Included in the front row of the reviewing stand were (left to right): Maj. Gen. C.F.C. Coleman,
British commander; General Manceaux-Demiau, General Mathewson, retired US commander; a French adjutant
and Mayor Reuter. (BE HICOG photos)

--- Page 30 ---
Karla Most, 17-year-old daughter of Amicus Most, special assistant of the MSA Mission
for Germany, recently turned over motion picture earnings of DM 750 ($178.50) to the
Berlin Red Cross, as Dr. Dietrich Bloss (left), president of the Berlin Red Cross, and Her-
bert Stamm, general secretary, look on. The money went for the assistance of refugees in
the Kreuzberg camp in Berlin. Miss Most, a native of New Rochelle, N. Y., signed a con-
tract with the Red Cross making her a Red Cross employee for the duration of her mo-
tion picture work. She earned the DM 750 while working with the International Film
Union in Remagen in synchronizing the French film “Entrez les Artistes” for distribution in
the United States. She has appeared in amateur theatrical productions in and around New
York, had small roles in Italian films while attending school in Rome, and was in the
play “First Lady” presented by the Bad Godesberg Little Theater Group before being em-
ployed by the German company. (BE HICOG photo by Schubert)